AND SO WITH
THAT I&apos;D LIKE TO WELCOME
EVERYONE TO THIS MONTH&apos;S
MEETING FOR THE COMMISSION ON
DISABILITY ISSUES.
I WOULD LIKE TO FIRST JUST
START WITH THE ROLL CALL.
SO DENISE, IF YOU DON&apos;T MIND
CALLING ON INDIVIDUALS AND THEN
OH, WE&apos;RE GOING TO DO IS SAY
OUR NAME AND SAY WHERE WE&apos;RE
ZOOMING IN FROM PREFERABLY ANN
ARBOR OR WASHTENAW COUNTY OR
WHAT CITY YOU&apos;RE IN.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER POSTERN
.
COMMISSIONER HAWKINS HERE.
DAMON.
YES.
HI, I&apos;M ZACK DAMON.
I&apos;M THE CHAIRMAN DISABILITY
ISSUES AND I&apos;M ZOOMING IN FROM
ANN ARBOR, THE MISSION
OF SOLOMON AT THE SOLOMON ANN
ARBOR, MICHIGAN USA.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER MOSAD.
YES, KATHLEEN WAS CALLING FROM
CANTERBURY, MICHIGAN.
MISSION HALL IS ABSENT TODAY
COMMISSIONER CHELA LARRY KING
AND I&apos;M CALLING FROM MY
RECLINER AND I FI THAT OUR ALEX
GOSSAGE COMMISSIONER CALLING IN
FROM ANN ARBOR
.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER
BRATTON.
I SURE CAN.
&gt;&gt; KINSEY BUTTON CALLING IN
FROM YPSILANTI, MICHIGAN
COMMISSIONER ALAN PIPKINS HERE
YOU COUNCIL MEMBER MALLESON
COUNCIL MEMBER NELSON I&apos;M
CALLING IN FROM THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR.
AWESOME.
THANK YOU EVERYONE FOR SO GO
AHEAD, LARRY.
&gt;&gt; I DIDN&apos;T SAY NO.
OK, NO PROBLEM BUT THANK YOU
ALL FOR TAKING THE TIME TODAY
ON ON OUR AGENDA IS THE
APPROVAL OF TODAY&apos;S AGENDA.
ALL OF YOU ON THE COMMISSION
SHOULD HAVE RECEIVED A COPY
THIS DOCUMENT FOR REVIEW.
SO IF THERE ARE ANY CORRECTIONS
EDITS AT THIS TIME THAT YOU
THINK SHOULD BE ADDED TO THE
AGENDA, I&apos;D LIKE TO OPEN THAT
UP TO COMMENT AT THIS TIME.
HOWEVER, IF NOT, IS THERE A
MOTION TO APPROVE TODAY&apos;S
AGENDA APPROVED?
&gt;&gt; OK, VERY MOVES TO APPROVE.
IS THERE A SECOND COMPLAINT?
SECONDS.
SO IF YOU COULD FOLKS JUST
WITHIN THE SCREEN HERE, IF YOU
ARE IN FAVOR, IF YOU COULD JUST
RAISE YOUR HAND ON THE
COMMISSION AND SAY AY AY AY.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH, FOLKS.
TODAY&apos;S AGENDA IS ALL RIGHT
MOVING FORWARD.
WE HAVE THE SPECIAL
PRESENTATION PORTION OF OUR
MEETING WANTED TO DOUBLE CHECK
.
OK, HERE WE GO.
WE HAVE AN AMAZING GUEST FOR
TODAY AND I REALLY APPRECIATE
HIS TIME AND JOINING US
VIRTUALLY THIS AFTERNOON I
WOULD LIKE TO WELCOME THE
DEMOCRATIC FLOOR LEADER
REPRESENTATIVE YOUSSOUF ROBIN
TO THE FLOOR.
SO REP. ROVI, HE&apos;S GOING TO BE
SPEAKING ON THE COMPLETE REFORM
OF THE NO FAULT AUTO LAW.
I ENCOURAGE ALL OF US TO LISTEN
INTENTLY AS TO WHY THIS IS
IMPORTANT.
AND JUST AS ONE MORE POINT
OF INFORMATION DOWN IN THE
AGENDA, WE&apos;VE ALSO PUT A COPY
OF THAT FOR YOUR REVIEW.
BUT REP. RAVI, WELCOME AND
THANK YOU FOR JOINING US.
&gt;&gt; WELL, THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR
HAVING ME HERE.
THIS IS AWESOME.
REALLY APPRECIATE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO ADDRESS ALL
OF YOU ABOUT THIS IMPORTANT
ISSUE AND SO I CAN GO FOR JUST
A LITTLE WHILE HERE AND THEN
OPEN UP FOR QUESTIONS.
I&apos;D BE HAPPY TO TAKE ANY
OF THOSE IF THAT&apos;S APPROPRIATE
.
&gt;&gt; BUT I GUESS BRIEFLY WHAT I
WANTED TO TALK ABOUT TODAY IS
OBVIOUSLY I THINK I THINK A LOT
OF YOU ALREADY KNOW FIRST
OF ALL, THANK YOU FOR ALL THE
WORK THAT YOU DO FOR THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR AND FOR ALL OF OUR
CONSTITUENTS HERE IN THIS
COMMUNITY.
OBVIOUSLY THE WORK THAT YOU&apos;RE
DOING IS VERY IMPORTANT AND
TIES IN DIRECTLY TO THIS ISSUE
AROUND NO FAULT AND THE THE
CHANGES THAT HAVE TAKEN PLACE.
SO JUST A BRIEF HISTORY THAT I
WANTED TO DISCUSS WITH ALL
OF YOU AROUND.
NO FAULT.
SO AS YOU KNOW, MICHIGAN HAD
FOR A LONG TIME THE ACTUALLY
OVER 40 YEARS WE HAD THE BEST
COVERAGE IN THE NATION FOR AUTO
ACCIDENT SURVIVOR.
WHAT IT MEANT IS WE HAD AS YOU
UNLIMITED COVERAGE MEANING THAT
ANYONE THAT WAS IN AN AUTO
ACCIDENT, REGARDLESS OF WHO WAS
THE AT FAULT DRIVER, THAT
INDIVIDUAL WAS TAKEN CARE
OF ALL OF THEIR MEDICAL NEEDS,
IMMEDIATE ACUTE NEEDS WERE
TAKEN CARE OF ALL OF THEIR
REHABILITATION AND POST ACUTE
CARE NEEDS WERE COVERED WHETHER
THEY HAD SEVERE SPINAL CORD OR
BRAIN INJURIES.
THERE WERE REHABILITATION
SERVICES AND MICHIGAN HAD ONE
OF THE PREMIER NETWORKS
OF REHABILITATE AND PROVIDERS
IN THE ENTIRE COUNTRY AS A
RESULT OF THE SYSTEM THAT WE
HAD CREATED HERE.
IN ADDITION, THE COVERAGE
EXTENDED TO HOME HEALTH CARE
AND ENSURING THAT ALL
INDIVIDUALS THAT SURVIVED A
CATASTROPHIC ACCIDENT WERE
COVERED WITH UP TO TWENTY FOUR
HOURS SEVEN DAYS A WEEK OF CARE
BECAUSE AS YOU ALL KNOW, MANY
INDIVIDUALS WHO HAVE SUFFERED
TRAUMATIC BRAIN OR SPINAL CORD
INJURY REQUIRE THAT LEVEL
OF ATTENTION TO BE ABLE TO
SURVIVE FRANKLY.
&gt;&gt; AND SO MANY TIMES FAMILY
MEMBERS WOULD BE PROVIDING THIS
SERVICE AND OF COURSE IF A
FAMILY MEMBER HAS TO QUIT THEIR
JOB AND IS NO LONGER ABLE TO
HAVE A CAREER BECAUSE THEY HAVE
TO FOCUS ON THE CARE OF THEIR
LOVED ONE, THE SYSTEM WAS
DESIGNED TO ENSURE THAT THAT
INDIVIDUAL WAS COMPENSATED FOR
THE CARE THAT THEY WERE
PROVIDING.
ADDITIONALLY, THE SYSTEM
PROVIDED FOR LOST WAGES FOR THE
INDIVIDUAL THAT WAS
CATASTROPHICALLY INJURED AND
PROVIDED FOR A VARIETY
OF BENEFITS AROUND UPGRADING
HOMES TO ENSURE THAT THE THAT
THE HOMES OF THE INDIVIDUALS
WHO WERE CATASTROPHICALLY
INJURED COULD BE RETROFITTED TO
ENSURE THAT THEY HAD THINGS
LIKE WHEELCHAIR RAMPS OR
ACCESSIBLE BATHROOMS AND
SHOWERS.
AND SO THESE WERE ALL
SERVICES
THAT THE SYSTEM USED TO PROVIDE
TO ALL MICHIGANDERS AND WE PAID
FOR IT USING BASICALLY WHAT WAS
KNOWN AS THE MICHIGAN
CATASTROPHIC CLAIMS ASSOCIATION
FEE.
THERE WAS AN ASSESSMENT THAT
WAS PLACED ON ALL OF OUR
INSURANCE AUTO INSURANCE AND
THERE&apos;S A LOT OF TALK ABOUT HOW
EXPENSIVE AUTO INSURANCE WAS
AND INDEED AUTO INSURANCE WAS
EXPENSIVE IN THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN FOR A VERY LONG
TIME AND STILL IS.
BUT THE WHAT WE GOT WHAT WE
PAID FOR FOR ALL OF THAT WAS
TWO HUNDRED DOLLARS PER YEAR
PER DRIVER.
SO WHEN YOU WHEN YOU HEAR
PEOPLE TALK ABOUT THEY HAVE A
TEN THOUSAND DOLLAR A YEAR
PREMIUM FOR THEIR AUTO
INSURANCE AGAIN PUT THAT IN
PERSPECTIVE.
ONLY TWO HUNDRED DOLLARS
OF THAT IS WHAT WAS NEEDED TO
COVER THIS UNIVERSAL CARE
BASICALLY FOR ALL CATASTROPHIC
SURVIVORS.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S PRETTY SUBSTANTIAL.
THE MECHANICS OF HOW THAT
WORKED SO THAT YOU&apos;RE ALL AWARE
IS THE FIRST FIVE HUNDRED AND
FIFTY THOUSAND OF CARE WAS
COVERED BY THE AUTO INSURANCE
PROVIDER USING THE PERSONAL
INJURY PROTECTION PREMIUM
SECTION OF YOUR AUTO INSURANCE.
SO IF YOU LOOK AT YOUR AUTO
INSURANCE BILL, THERE&apos;S A
NUMBER OF DIFFERENT
SUBSECTIONS.
THERE&apos;S COLLISION COVERAGE,
THERE&apos;S LIABILITY COVERAGE, ET
CETERA.
THE PERSONAL INJURY PROTECTION
COVERAGE YOU PAID FOR THAT LINE
ITEM WAS COVERING THE FIRST
FIVE HUNDRED FIFTY THOUSAND
DOLLARS OF CARE EVERYTHING
ABOVE AND BEYOND THAT FIRST
FIVE HUNDRED FIFTY THOUSAND
DOLLARS OF CARE WAS COVERED BY
THE CATASTROPHIC CLAIMS
ASSOCIATION FUNDED THAT TWO
HUNDRED DOLLARS PER YEAR THAT I
WAS JUST TALKING ABOUT.
SO IN TWENTY NINETEEN THERE WAS
AN EFFORT BY FRANKLY THE THE
GOVERNOR AND THE MAYOR
OF DETROIT, MIKE DUGGAN AND THE
INSURANCE INDUSTRY TO CHANGE
THE WAY THAT THE AUTO INSURANCE
SYSTEM IN THE STATE OF MICHIGAN
WORKED AND A FEW OF THE CHANGES
THAT WERE MADE FOCUSED AROUND
SOME OF THE TALKING POINTS THAT
WERE USED FOR A LONG TIME TO
BASICALLY BUY THE AUTO
INSURANCE INDUSTRY TO TALK
ABOUT SOME OF THE FLAWS THAT
DID EXIST IN THE OLD SYSTEM.
SOME OF THE FLAWS THAT EXISTED
INCLUDED THE FACT THAT
INSURANCE THAT THAT INSURANCE
RATES WERE VERY HIGH AND SO FOR
FOR A LOT OF MICHIGANDERS AND
SO THAT THAT WAS A THAT WAS AN
IMPORTANT ISSUE WITH THE OLD
SYSTEM.
BUT THAT WAS LARGELY THE RESULT
OF THE FACT THAT THE INSURANCE
INDUSTRY WAS ABLE TO SET RATES
WITHOUT ANY TYPE OF OVERSIGHT
BY THE STATE AND SO THEY COULD
SET RATES AT THEIR AT THEIR
WILL AND THEY COULD BE
EXORBITANT AND THERE WAS NO
REAL CHECKS AND BALANCES ON
WHAT THE INSURANCE INDUSTRY
COULD CHARGE PEOPLE IN
ADDITION.
&gt;&gt; ANOTHER ISSUE THAT WE AS
DEMOCRATS IN THE HOUSE HAVE
LONG TALKED ABOUT THAT EXISTED
WITH THE OLD LEGISLATION IS
THAT IT PERMITTED ESSENTIALLY
THE USE OF NON-DRIVING FACTORS
WHICH IS ESSENTIALLY RATE
SETTING THAT INVOLVES USING
WELL IT&apos;S SELF EXPLANATORY NOT
DRIVING FACTORS.
SO THEY WOULD USE THINGS LIKE
YOUR ZIP CODE , YOUR GENDER,
ALL THESE DIFFERENT FACTORS
COULD APPLY TO SETTING HOW MUCH
YOU PAY IN YOUR AUTO INSURANCE
AND THE ARGUMENT THAT THE AUTO
INSURANCE INDUSTRY ALWAYS MAKE
ALWAYS MADE IS THAT WELL YOU
THEY HAVE SOME SCIENCE THAT
PROVES THAT THAT WOMEN ARE
DIFFERENT TYPES OF DRIVERS THAN
MEN AND THAT PEOPLE THAT LIVE
IN CERTAIN ZIP CODES ARE
DIFFERENT, THAT THERE&apos;S MORE
LIABILITY FOR THEM TO COVER .
ALL OF THOSE ARGUMENTS TO ME
HAVE BEEN COMPLETELY ASININE
AND I DON&apos;T I DO NOT BUY INTO
THAT ARGUMENT.
SO WHEN THE REFORM CAME FORWARD
IN TWENTY NINETEEN IT WAS
PREDICATED ON LOWERING RATES
AND ENDING REDLINING.
NOW THE REFORMS THAT ACHIEVED
IN TWENTY NINETEEN WERE NOT
REFORMS THEY WERE A COMPLETE
DECIMATION OF OUR BEST IN THE
NATION AUTO INSURANCE SYSTEM
THAT COVERED EVERYBODY AND
PROVIDED THAT UNIVERSAL
COVERAGE AND AN EXCHANGE WE
WERE TOLD WE WERE GETTING LOWER
RATES BUT IF YOU READ THE BILL
AS I DID IN THE MOMENTS BEFORE
IT PASSED BECAUSE WE REALLY
DIDN&apos;T HAVE MUCH TIME TO
ACTUALLY REVIEW THE LEGISLATION
AND IT IS VERY CLEAR THAT THE
BILL DOES NOT ACTUALLY REDUCE
RATES.
IT SAYS VERY EXPLICITLY THAT
THE RATE REDUCTION FIRST OF ALL
ONLY APPLIES TO THE PERSONAL
INJURY PROTECTION PORTION
OF YOUR PREMIUM MEANING YOUR
WHOLE AUTO INSURANCE BILL DOES
NOT NECESSARILY NEED TO GO
DOWN.
THEY COULD INCREASE YOUR
COLLISION COVERAGE PREMIUM AND
DECREASE YOUR COVERAGE BY A
LITTLE BIT AND AS LONG AS THEY
FULFILLED THEIR REDUCTION
OF THE COVERAGE THAT WOULD
CHECK THE BOX IN A LOT.
ALSO THE LAW WAS EXPLICIT THAT
IT SAID THE RATE REDUCTIONS
WERE ON AVERAGE ACROSS THE
STATE MEANING THAT SOME
RESIDENTS IN THE CITY
OF DETROIT AND OTHER PLACES
THAT WERE PAYING HIGHER
PREMIUMS COULD STILL AND DO AND
ARE STILL SEEING EXORBITANT
RATES EVEN THOUGH THE AVERAGE
REDUCTION ACROSS THE STATE MAY
BE ACHIEVED BY THE INSURANCE
INDUSTRY.
&gt;&gt; THERE WERE ALSO PLENTY
OF OFF RAMPS FOR THE INSURANCE
INDUSTRY IF IT WAS NOT FEASIBLE
FOR THEM TO REDUCE RATES THAT
WAS AN OFF RAMP.
SO THE BILL WAS DESIGNED WITH
PLENTY OF LOOPHOLES FOR THE
AUTO INSURANCE INDUSTRY AND
WHAT WE HAVE SEEN IS NOT A RATE
REDUCTION BUT ACTUALLY WE ARE
WE ARE EXPECTING TO SEE DOUBLE
DIGIT RATE INCREASES THIS YEAR.
THE REDLINING ISSUE IS ALSO
ANOTHER FACTOR THAT THEY SAID
WAS GOING TO BE SOLVED.
AGAIN, THOSE OF US THAT READ
THE BILL IN PURE BLACK AND
WHITE INK THAT IT WAS NOT GOING
TO BE SOLVED, THAT THEY STILL
IN FACT PERMITTED NUMEROUS
NON-DRIVING FACTOR RATING
FACTORS INCLUDING THEY DID
SPECIFICALLY ELIMINATE ZIP
CODES BECAUSE THAT&apos;S SOMETHING
THAT WE TALKED A LOT ABOUT THAT
WAS AN INJUSTICE.
THEY DID SPECIFICALLY ELIMINATE
ZIP CODES BUT RIGHT UNDERNEATH
THAT THEY SAID YOU CAN&apos;T USE
ZIP CODES BUT YOU CAN USE ANY
OTHER TERRITORIAL RATING FACTOR
MEANING THAT THEY CAN STILL SET
YOUR RATES BASED ON THE CITY
YOU LIVE IN YOUR YOUR STATE REP
DISTRICT, YOUR STATE SENATE
DISTRICT, YOUR CENSUS.
THEY JUST CAN&apos;T USE
SPECIFICALLY ZIP CODES BUT THEY
CAN USE ANY OTHER TYPE
OF TERRITORIAL RATING FACTOR.
SO LONG STORY SHORT, WE GAVE UP
OUR BEST IN THE NATION CARE IN
EXCHANGE FOR NOTHING.
BASICALLY WE GOT EMPTY
PROMISES, NO REDUCTION IN
RATES, NO END TO REDLINING
THERE WAS NO BENEFITS TO THIS
BILL.
SO WHEN THIS WHEN THE THE
HALLMARK PORTION OF THE
LEGISLATION FRANKLY THE MOST
DEVASTATING COMPONENTS OF IT
FIRST OF ALL, AGAIN, THOSE
OF US THAT READ IT WE&apos;RE
TALKING ABOUT THIS AT THE TIME
THAT IT PASSED IN TWENTY
NINETEEN ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
THE BILL DID ANOTHER TALKING
POINT THAT THE INSURANCE
INDUSTRY HAD BEEN USING IS PART
OF THE REASON THAT THEY SAID
RATES WERE SO IS BECAUSE THERE
WERE PROVIDERS THAT WERE
ABUSING THE SYSTEM THAT WERE
CHARGING TOO MUCH TO THE STATE
OR TO THE MCA FOR FOUR CARE.
&gt;&gt; AND SO THEIR SOLUTION WHICH
WAS COMPLETELY STUPID I MEAN I
KNOW THIS IS A PUBLIC MEETING
BUT THERE&apos;S NO OTHER WAY TO SAY
IT.
IT IT WAS PROBABLY THE MOST
RIDICULOUS APPROACH TO
LEGISLATION LEGISLATING THAT
I&apos;VE EVER SEEN IS THEY SAID
THAT FOR SO THEY THEY DID
BASICALLY CREATE CAPS ON HOW
MUCH PROVIDER COULD BE
REIMBURSED IF YOU&apos;RE A HOSPITAL
AND YOU&apos;RE BILLING FOR A
SERVICE THAT HAS A BILLABLE
CODE UNDER MEDICARE THEN YOU
CAN CHARGE BASICALLY I THINK
IT&apos;S LIKE DEPENDING ON THE TYPE
OF HOSPITAL THAT YOU ARE IT&apos;S
LIKE ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY
FIVE HUNDRED AND FIFTY TWO
HUNDRED PERCENT OF MEDICARE IF
IT&apos;S A BILLABLE IF IT&apos;S NOT A
BILLABLE CODE MEANING ALL THE
POST ACUTE CARE PROVIDERS, THE
BRAIN INJURY AND SPINAL CORD
INJURY REHABILITATION CENTERS
ANY POST ACUTE CARE BASICALLY
THOSE AND UNDER THE LAW THE LAW
SAID THOSE ARE ALL REDUCED BY
FORTY FIVE PERCENT BASED ON
WHAT THE COMPANY WAS CHARGING
IN JANUARY TWENTY NINETEEN.
SO IF YOU TAKE A STEP BACK AND
THINK ABOUT IT WHAT I WAS
SAYING AT THE TIME WHAT ENDED
UP TURNING OUT TO BE TRUE IF
YOU&apos;RE A BAD ACTOR AND YOU&apos;RE
CHARGING SAY FIVE THOUSAND
DOLLARS FOR A FIVE HUNDRED
DOLLAR SERVICE AND AND THEN
THERE&apos;S A GOOD ACTOR THAT&apos;S
CHARGING FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS
FOR A FIVE HUNDRED DOLLAR
SERVICE AND YOU CUT EVERYBODY
ACROSS THE BOARD.
FORTY FIVE PERCENT THE BAD
ACTORS ARE THE ONES THAT ARE
GOING TO BE ABLE TO STAY IN
BUSINESS BECAUSE THEY&apos;RE STILL
MAKING TWENTY FIVE HUNDRED
DOLLARS ON A FIVE HUNDRED
SERVICE.
&gt;&gt; BUT THE GOOD ACTORS THAT
HAVE BEEN CHARGING A FAIR
AMOUNT THE WHOLE TIME BASICALLY
GOT SCREWED BY THE SYSTEM.
&gt;&gt; AND SO WE HAVE SEEN NOW THIS
WAVE NOW THAT IT&apos;S THAT HAS
TAKEN EFFECT, THIS WAVE
OF CLOSURES OF POST ACUTE CARE
PROVIDERS WE&apos;VE HAD OVER ONE
HUNDRED CLOSED AND THERE THOSE
THAT THEY&apos;RE PROVIDING CARE TO
HAVE OBVIOUSLY BEEN BASICALLY
BEEN LEFT WITHOUT ANY OPTIONS
BECAUSE THE OTHER PROVIDERS ARE
NOT TAKING ON NEW CLIENTS.
MANY PEOPLE HAVE HAD TO GO TO
THE E.R. SOME PEOPLE HAVE HAD
TO TURN TO FAMILY MEMBERS AND
OF COURSE SOME WE HAVE SEEN
HAVE BEEN SEVERELY INJURED
WORSENING OUTCOMES FOR THEM AND
SOME HAVE EVEN DIED.
AND SO THIS HAS BEEN A
CATASTROPHIC FAILURE OF THE
SYSTEM.
ADDITIONALLY, COVERAGE FOR
THOSE THAT ARE PROVIDING
ATTENDANT CARE HAS BEEN
DRAMATICALLY REDUCED AGAIN, WE
USED TO HAVE TWENTY FOUR HOUR
TWENTY FOUR HOURS OF CARE THAT
WAS REIMBURSABLE.
THE NEW SYSTEM CAPS IT AT FIFTY
SIX HOURS PER WEEK MEANING THAT
FIFTY SIX HOURS OF CARE IS
REIMBURSABLE AND THE REST IS
NOT SO IT IS EXTREMELY
DIFFICULT FOR AN INDIVIDUAL
CATASTROPHICALLY INJURED TO BE
ABLE TO SURVIVE WITH
ESSENTIALLY NO CARE FOR THE
REMAINING DOZENS OF HOURS IN
THE WEEK THAT THAT THAT THEY
THAT THERE&apos;S NO COVERAGE FOR.
IN ADDITION THE INSURANCE
COMPANIES HAVE NOW BEEN
EMBOLDENED TO ESSENTIALLY NOT
REIMBURSE INDIVIDUALS FOR FOR
COVERED CARE.
SO EVEN THINGS LIKE THE LIKE I
WAS SAYING EARLIER RETROFITTING
HOMES WITH WHEELCHAIR RAMPS AND
SO ON THAT IS NOW THE INSURANCE
COMPANIES SOMETIMES ARE SENDING
BACK REIMBURSEMENT.
THAT&apos;S 50 PERCENT.
THERE ARE FORTY FIVE OR FIFTY
FIVE PERCENT BECAUSE THEY&apos;RE
SAYING THAT IT&apos;S A NOT A
MEDICARE BILLABLE SERVICE AND
SO THEY&apos;RE GOING TO ONLY
REIMBURSE FIFTY FIVE PERCENT
AND WHICH IS RIDICULOUS.
YOU CAN&apos;T BUILD FIFTY FIVE
PERCENT OF THE WHEELCHAIR RAMP
THAT DOESN&apos;T MAKE SENSE AND SO
BUT THAT&apos;S WHAT THEY&apos;RE
CLAIMING THAT THEY CAN DO AND
IN SOME CASES THEY&apos;RE JUST FLAT
OUT DENYING THE ENTIRE CLAIM
BECAUSE THEY KNOW THAT A LOT
OF INDIVIDUALS THAT ARE THAT
HAVE CATASTROPHIC INJURIES DO
NOT HAVE THE FINANCIAL CAPACITY
TO BE ABLE TO ACTUALLY
GO IN
AND FIGHT THE INSURANCE
COMPANIES TO GET PAID.
SO AS OF NOW THE INSURANCE
INDUSTRY HAS BASICALLY IN
COMPLETE CONTROL OF THE
SITUATION.
THEY ARE MAKING IT VERY
DIFFICULT FOR PEOPLE TO RECEIVE
THE CARE THAT THEY NEED AND WE
ARE IN DIRE CIRCUMSTANCES RIGHT
NOW WITH WITH THE CURRENT
SITUATION THAT WE&apos;RE IN.
SO I HAVE INTRODUCED A PIECE
OF LEGISLATION TO FULLY REPEAL
THE TWENTY NINETEEN CHANGES TO
OUR AUTO INSURANCE LAW.
&gt;&gt; THAT BILL HAS BEEN
INTRODUCED NOW I HAD SEVERAL
CO-SPONSORS THAT DID COSIGN IT.
&gt;&gt; THE BILL IS A CLEAN AND FULL
REPEAL OF THE TWO THOUSAND
NINETEEN LAW AGAIN, AS I SAID
AS I SAID EARLIER, WE WE GOT
BASICALLY WE LOST OUR BEST IN
THE NATION COVERAGE IN EXCHANGE
FOR EMPTY PROMISES AND THINGS
THAT DID NOT MATERIALIZE AND
THOSE OF US AGAIN THAT READ THE
BILL KNEW THAT THEY WOULDN&apos;T.
BUT HERE WE ARE NOW TWO, THREE
YEARS LATER AND WE SEE THAT
THEY&apos;RE NOT GOING ANYWHERE.
SO MY BILL IS A FULL REPEAL
GETS US BACK TO THE OLD SYSTEM
WHERE WE ACTUALLY
COVERED EVERYBODY IN THE STATE
AND MADE SURE THAT THOSE THAT
WERE CATASTROPHIC INJURED WERE
NOT LEFT LITERALLY IN THE COLD
TO DIE.
AND SO THAT&apos;S WHAT I CAME HERE
TO TALK ABOUT TODAY AND I THINK
I&apos;VE DRONING ON FOR A LITTLE
TOO LONG SO I&apos;M GOING TO TURN
IT BACK OVER AND IF THERE ARE
QUESTIONS, I&apos;M HAPPY TO ANSWER
THOSE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SO MUCH, REP.
ROBBY FOR THAT WONDERFUL
EXPLANATION.
VERY DETAILED.
THEN OF COURSE THE POINTS YOU
HAMMERED HOME ARE DEFINITELY
PARAMOUNT FOLKS.
I KNOW THAT THERE&apos;S PROBABLY A
LOT OF QUESTIONS BUT I&apos;D LIKE
TO LIMIT IT IF YOU DON&apos;T MIND
JUST A TWO OR THREE.
SO IF YOU DO HAVE ONE PLEASE
USE THE HAND RAISING FUNCTION
AND DENISE WILL CALL ON YOU.
BUT I ANTICIPATE THAT THERE IF
THERE ARE OTHER QUESTIONS THAT
PROBABLY WE CAN REACH OUT TO
YOU WITH THOSE GOING FORWARD.
FOLKS, IF YOU DO HAVE A
QUESTION, PLEASE RAISE YOUR
HAND IN THE PROGRAM AND DENISE
CAN CALL ON YOU AT THIS TIME
.
COMMISSIONER MOZER, THANK YOU
VERY MUCH AND THANK YOU FOR
BEING HERE.
REPRESENTATIVE RABEA, I AM
WONDERING WHAT CAN WE DO AS
INDIVIDUALS, AS A COMMISSION,
AS THE PEOPLE WHO ARE LISTENING
TO THIS RIGHT NOW AND CAN HOW
CAN WE HELP GET BEHIND THIS AND
REALLY HELP SUPPORT WHAT&apos;S
HAPPENING AND WHEN IS THE WHEN
IS THIS GOING TO BE VOTED ON?
&gt;&gt; ALL GREAT QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU.
AND SO YES, THERE IS A LOT THAT
INDIVIDUALS CAN DO TO HELP
RESOLVE THIS PROBLEM.
OBVIOUSLY THE THE SOLUTIONS I
THINK ARE VERY PRESENT.
THERE&apos;S ALSO ANOTHER SERIES
OF BILLS THAT WE INTRODUCED
THAT WOULD BASICALLY HELP
EITHER WITH MY BILL PASSING IF
WE WERE TO REPEAL THE FULL 20
19 LAW OR EVEN THEY WOULD BE
HELPFUL EVEN IF NOTHING CHANGED
WITH THE TWO THOUSAND NINETEEN
LAW.
SOME OF THEM INCLUDE BILLS THAT
I DRAFTED THAT I ACTUALLY
HANDED TO OTHER MEMBERS TO
INTRODUCE ONE OF THE BILLS
REQUIRES THAT THE STATE
DEPARTMENT OF INSURANCE AND
FINANCIAL SERVICES ESSENTIALLY
APPROVE ALL RATES THAT ARE THAT
ARE THAT INSURANCE COMPANIES
CHARGE IN PREMIUMS.
THAT IS THE SINGLE GREATEST AND
MOST EFFECTIVE FACTOR THAT
WE&apos;VE SEEN ACROSS THE COUNTRY
IN ENSURING THAT THERE IS
CONTROL ON WHAT RATES THE
INSURANCE COMPANIES CHARGE AND
IT&apos;S ACTUALLY RESULTED IN A
REDUCTION IN RATES IN STATES
THAT HAVE IMPLEMENTED THIS.
AND SO WE BELIEVE THIS IS ONE
OF THE NUMBER ONE THINGS THAT
WE NEED TO IMPLEMENT IN ORDER
TO REDUCE RATES IN THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN.
THE OTHER ONE IS A BILL TO
ELIMINATE THE REDLINING AND
NON-DRIVING FACTORS THAT ARE
BEING USED AND THIS BAILOUT
PACKAGE WOULD SAY NO
TERRITORIAL RATING FACTORS AT
ALL CAN BE USED NO PROTECTED
CLASSES UNDER THE ELLIOTT
LARSEN CIVIL RIGHTS ACT CAN BE
USED AND SO THAT SOLVES A OUT
OF THE GENDER ISSUE AND MANY
OTHER FACTORS AS WELL.
SO WE&apos;VE INTRODUCED A BUNCH
OF BILLS TO TRY TO SOLVE A LOT
OF THOSE PROBLEMS.
THERE&apos;S A LOT OF LEGISLATION
THAT WE&apos;VE INTRODUCED AS WELL
TO ADDRESS THE FORTY FIVE
PERCENT REDUCTION.
IT&apos;S EVEN BEEN MANY OF IT
BIPARTISAN.
THERE HAS BEEN REPUBLICAN AND
DEMOCRATIC SUPPORT FOR THIS.
THE PROBLEM BASICALLY BOTTOM
LINE PROBLEM IS SPEAKER OF THE
HOUSE LEADERSHIP IN BOTH
CHAMBERS HAS ESSENTIALLY
REFUSED TO ALLOW ANY OF THIS
LEGISLATION TO MOVE FORWARD SO
WHAT CAN PEOPLE DO?
I THINK THAT THE FIRST THING IS
WE NEED FOLKS TO CONTACT, YOU
KNOW, THEIR THEIR LEGISLATORS.
OBVIOUSLY IF I&apos;M YOUR
LEGISLATOR I&apos;M ALREADY VERY
TUNED IN ON THIS ISSUE.
BUT WHAT I ALWAYS ENCOURAGE
PEOPLE IN MY DISTRICT TO DO IS
YOU PROBABLY HAVE FRIENDS, YOU
PROBABLY HAVE FAMILY MEMBERS
THAT LIVE IN OTHER PARTS OF THE
STATE.
I ENCOURAGE YOU TO CALL THEM TO
TALK TO THEM ABOUT THIS PROBLEM
.
AND FRANKLY, AGAIN, THIS IS A
THIS IS AN ISSUE THAT CROSSES
THE POLITICAL SPECTRUM.
THIS IS NOT A PARTIZAN ISSUE
YOU CAN CALL A REPUBLICAN OR A
DEMOCRATIC FRIEND COLLEAGUE
RELATIVE OF YOURS AND HAVE THIS
CONVERSATION HELP THEM
UNDERSTAND HOW THIS IS
IMPACTING PEOPLE AND ENCOURAGE
THEM TO CONTACT THEIR
LEGISLATORS.
WE BASICALLY NEED TO CREATE A
SITUATION WHERE NOBODY CAN
IGNORE THIS PROBLEM ANY LONGER
AND I AND I DO WANT TO GIVE A
SHOUT OUT.
THERE HAS BEEN MANY ACTIVISTS
THAT HAVE BEEN BOTH
CATASTROPHIC INJURY SURVIVORS
AS WELL AS THEIR FAMILY MEMBERS
THAT HAVE SHOWED UP AT THE
CAPITOL BUILDING TO RAISE THEIR
VOICES TO TALK TO LEGISLATORS.
IF YOU&apos;RE INTERESTED IN BEING
PART OF THAT, I WOULD ENCOURAGE
YOU TO DO THAT.
I THINK SHOWING UP TO THE
CAPITOL IS A GREAT AND
EFFECTIVE WAY OF DOING IT.
BASICALLY EVERY SINGLE
LEGISLATOR SESSION DAY WE HAVE
PEOPLE IN THE LOBBY THAT ARE
THERE TALKING TO LEGISLATORS.
IF YOU WANT TO BE PART OF THAT
EFFORT I&apos;D SAY JUST SHOW UP ON
A SESSION DAY IN THE LOBBY AND
YOU KNOW THERE WILL BE
OPPORTUNITY THERE WILL BE
PEOPLE THERE ALREADY TALKING TO
THEIR LEGISLATORS.
SO THERE&apos;S A LOT OF WAYS TO GET
INVOLVED.
THE OTHER ONE IS I KNOW THAT
THERE&apos;S YOU SOME CONVERSATION
AND I&apos;D LOVE TO TALK MORE WITH
ALL OF YOU ABOUT THE
POSSIBILITY OF DOING LOCAL
RESOLUTIONS AROUND AROUND THIS.
I KNOW THAT THE SOMETHING THAT
THAT THAT YOU&apos;VE BEEN WORKING
ON QUITE A BIT ALONG WITH
COUNCILWOMAN NELSON AND OTHERS
TO TRY TO GET THIS MOVING
FORWARD.
I KNOW THE COUNTY IS ALSO HAS
AN EFFORT UNDERWAY IF WE CAN
BUILD THAT MOMENTUM, YOU KNOW,
LOCAL UNITS OF GOVERNMENT I
THINK IT HELPS TO AMPLIFY THAT
CONVERSATION QUITE A BIT.
AND THANK YOU, KATHLEEN, FOR
THE QUESTION
.
COMMISSIONER GOSSIP&apos;S THANK YOU
FOR BEING HERE TODAY.
REPRESENTATIVE ROBBIE, DO YOU
HAPPEN TO HAVE THE NUMBERS FOR
THOSE COMPANION BILLS YOU
MENTIONED THAT WERE RELATED TO
THE STRIKING DOWN THE REDLINING
AND THOSE THINGS?
&gt;&gt; I DON&apos;T HAVE THEM OFTEN BUT
I CAN GET THEM TO YOU BEFORE
THE END OF THIS BILL THAT WOULD
BE FANTASTIC.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
WONDERFUL.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS WE HAVE FOR
BRABY THIS TIME, FOLKS?
I THINK THIS IS REALLY, REALLY
GREAT, WONDERFUL WORK THAT REP.
THAT YOU&apos;RE DOING BUT ALSO
THANK YOU FOR YOUR KIND WORDS
IN TERMS OF YOU KNOW, WHAT OUR
COMMISSION IS ATTEMPTING TO DO
IN TERMS OF OUR POSITION AND
DOING OUR BEST TO BE A VOICE ON
ON THIS ISSUE AS WELL.
&gt;&gt; ABSOLUTELY.
WELL, I JUST APPRECIATE THE
WORK THAT YOU&apos;RE DOING AND I&apos;LL
GIVE YOU THE BILL NUMBERS RIGHT
NOW.
I JUST CALLED THEM UP SO
THERE&apos;S THE ONE ON FORSEEN
DIFFS TO WELL FORCING THE
INSURANCE COMPANIES TO GET
THEIR RATES APPROVED BY DIFFS.
THAT&apos;S HOUSE BILL SIX THOUSAND
SO EASY TO REMEMBER HOUSE BILL
SIX THOUSAND THAT&apos;S A
REPRESENTATIVE HOULD OUT
OF GRAND RAPIDS IS INTRODUCED
THAT BILL AND THEN THE ONE ON
THE RED LINING IS HOUSE BILL
SIX ZERO ZERO FIVE.
THAT&apos;S REPRESENTATIVE JONES
THAT INTRODUCED THAT ONE AND
THERE ARE SEVERAL THERE ARE
SEVERAL OTHER BILLS IN THAT
PACKAGE OF BILLS AND I
SPONSORED A COUPLE OF THEM AND
THOSE TWO BILLS THAT I DID
MENTION AGAIN I DRAFTED THEM
BUT I DID GIVE THEM TO OTHER
MEMBERS TO INTRODUCE AND I
THINK THEY&apos;RE FANTASTIC BILLS.
&gt;&gt; BUT YEAH, THOSE ARE THE BILL
NUMBERS ON THOSE.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
I REALLY APPRECIATE YOUR TIME
PROBABLY BECAUSE I KNOW HOW
BUSY YOU ARE AND THE GOOD FIGHT
THAT YOU&apos;RE FIGHTING AND YOU
KNOW, I INDIVIDUALLY DEFINITELY
APPRECIATE YOUR EFFORTS AND YOU
KNOW, I&apos;M FAIRLY CERTAIN THE
REST OF THE COMMISSION DOES AS
WELL.
&gt;&gt; WELL, I REALLY APPRECIATE
YOU FOR INVITING TO BE
YOUR
HONOR.
&gt;&gt; YOU SWEET ZOOM, RIGHT?
YEAH.
SO I WAS JUST I WAS JUST SAYING
REALLY APPRECIATE YOU FOR
HAVING ME HERE TODAY AND I WANT
TO THANK ALL OF THE
COMMISSIONERS FOR BEING ENGAGED
ON THIS ISSUE.
WE NEED EVERYBODY AT THE TABLE
AS PART OF THIS DISCUSSION AND
PART OF THIS MOVEMENT.
SO REALLY, REALLY APPRECIATE
ALL OF YOU FOR DOING THIS.
ABSOLUTELY.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
GREAT PRESENTATION AND THANK
YOU SO MUCH AGAIN FOR
REPROBATES TIME.
NEXT ON OUR AGENDA.
&gt;&gt; I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE I&apos;M
NOT MUTED HERE, OK?
I&apos;M NOT THAT WE GO NEXT HOUR ON
OUR AGENDA.
WE DENHA YOGURTLAND OF THE
OFFICE OF SUSTAINABILITY AND
INNOVATIONS AND SUSTAINABLE
ENERGY UTILITY SO THEY THANK
YOU SO MUCH FOR JOINING US AND
OF COURSE SO CLOSE.
SO CLOSE.
EXCUSE TO EARTH DAY.
SO WHAT A PLEASURE TO HAVE YOU
AND THANK YOU VERY MUCH
.
&gt;&gt; WELCOME.
THANKS SO MUCH FOR HAVING ME.
I DO HAVE SOME SLIDES.
&gt;&gt; WOULD IT BE POSSIBLE TO HAVE
SCREEN SHARING ENABLED?
I&apos;M GOING TO MAKE YOU A CO-HOST
AND THEN YOU CAN OK SPEAKER
THERE WE GO.
WELL CAN YOU SEE THAT OK?
YES OK GREAT AGAIN THANK YOU SO
MUCH FOR HAVING ME HERE TODAY.
MY NAME IS VEIGAR LENAR.
I&apos;M AN ENERGY ANALYST WITH THE
CITY OF ENTERPRISE OFFICE
SUSTAINABILITY AND INNOVATION
AND HOPEFULLY BRIEFLY TODAY I
WANT TO PROVIDE AN OVERVIEW
OF WHAT THE SUSTAINABLE ENERGY
UTILITY IS AND HOW IT WOULD
OPERATE IN ANN ARBOR AND SOME
NEXT STEPS TO LEARN MORE AND
PROVIDE FEEDBACK AS SOME
BACKGROUND.
&gt;&gt; ANN ARBOR HAS AN AMBITIOUS
GOAL OF ACHIEVING ZERO CLIMATE
BLUE OR TWENTY THIRTY TO
UNDERSTAND HOW TO ACHIEVE THAT
GOAL.
IT&apos;S IMPORTANT TO LOOK INTO
WHERE THAT POLLUTION IS COMING
FROM LOCALLY.
FORTY PERCENT OF OUR COMMUNITY
WIDE CLIMATE POLLUTION
OTHERWISE KNOWN AS GREENHOUSE
GAS EMISSIONS COMES FROM
BUILDING ELECTRICITY USAGE
OF AND THEN NEARLY TWO THIRDS
OF OUR EMISSIONS COME FROM
ELECTRICITY PLUS NATURAL GAS
THAT&apos;S USED TO HEAT AND COOL
OUR BUILDINGS.
SO GIVEN THIS REALITY WE KNOW
THAT SOLUTIONS TO REDUCING
LOCAL POLLUTION NECESSITATE
FINDING PATHWAYS TO BOTH CLEAN
OUR ELECTRICITY GRID AND
SUPPORT THE TRANSITION AWAY
FROM THE USE OF FOSSIL GAS
WHICH WE USE AGAIN FOR HEATING
AND COOLING AND SWITCHING THAT
TO ELECTRICITY SO WE KNOW THAT
WE NEED TO PROVIDE RENEWABLE
ENERGY TO ADDRESS THESE
EMISSIONS.
I ALSO WANT TO SHOW YOU WHERE
WE&apos;RE STARTING FROM.
SO THIS IS OUR CURRENT FUEL MIX
LOCALLY FROM FROM DG AND I
COULD INCLUDE IT IN HERE LOCAL
SOLAR.
SO RECENTLY WE WERE SEEING A
GROUNDSWELL IN ADOPTION
OF SOLAR.
OUR GROUP PROGRAM SOLAR ARRAYS.
AND JUST TO PUT THIS IN CONTEXT
IN ANN ARBOR THAT&apos;S STILL LESS
THAN HALF OF A PERCENT OF TOTAL
ELECTRICITY USE.
AND SO TODAY I&apos;M GOING TO TALK
ABOUT A WAY THAT WE CAN UNLOCK
A MUCH HIGHER ADOPTION OF LOCAL
CLEAN AND RENEWABLE ENERGY.
&gt;&gt; SO THIS CHART SHOWS THE LOW
AND HIGH ESTIMATED SOLAR IMPACT
SOLAR CAPACITY UNLOCKED BY THE
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY UTILITY.
SO AS WE LOOK FOR WAYS TO
IMPROVE THE RELIABILITY AND THE
FUEL MIX OF OUR ENERGY SUPPLY,
IT&apos;S IMPORTANT TO UNDERSTAND
THE ENERGY LANDSCAPE IN
MICHIGAN AND IOWA HAS WHAT IS
KNOWN AS A PRE FOOT ACT
FRANCHISE WHICH MEANS THAT DD
HAS THE RIGHT IN THE PERPETUITY
TO PROVIDE POWER TO THE CITY
HOWEVER.
BUT FRANCHISES ARE NOT
EXCLUSIVE AND SO THE MICHIGAN
CONSTITUTION PROTECTS THE RIGHT
OF CITIES AND VILLAGES TO
CREATE THEIR OWN MUNICIPAL
UTILITY.
THIS CAN BE DONE EITHER TAKING
WHAT WE CALL LIKE A
CONDEMNATION AND THEN A BUYOUT
OF THE INCUMBENT UTILITY AND
THEIR INFRASTRUCTURE OR VIA THE
CREATION OF A UTILITY.
TO DATE EVERY COMMUNITY THAT
HAS STARTED THEIR OWN MUNICIPAL
ELECTRIC UTILITY WITHIN
MICHIGAN WITH THE LAST BEING
ZELAND WHICH WAS DONE IN
NINETEEN TWO THEY DID SO BY
STARTING A UTILITY FROM SCRATCH
WHEN SERVICE WAS NOT ALREADY
WIDESPREAD AND YOU CAN KIND
OF IMAGINE WHY STANDING UP A
FULL SET OF POLES AND WIRES TO
DIRECTLY COMPETE WITH INCOMING
UTILITY IS AN EXPENSIVE
PROPOSITION AS IS BEING OUT
THERE INFRASTRUCTURE THROUGH
KIND OF MISSION WHICH MEANS
THAT YOU ACQUIRE THAT
INFRASTRUCTURE WHICH IS OFTEN
IN PRETTY POOR CONDITION.
&gt;&gt; SO WHAT IF INSTEAD WE
CREATED A COMPLEMENTARY
COMMUNITY OWNED ENERGY UTILITY
THAT PROVIDES ELECTRICITY FROM
LOCAL SOLAR AND BATTERY STORAGE
SYSTEMS INSTALLED ON HOMES AND
BUSINESSES IN OUR COMMUNITY?
WHAT IF THAT COMMUNITY OWNED
UTILITY PROVIDED ONE HUNDRED
CLEAN, RELIABLE, LOCALLY BUILT
AND AFFORDABLE ELECTRICITY
BUILT RIGHT HERE IN OUR
COMMUNITY?
THIS UTILITY WOULD GIVE
RESIDENTS A CHOICE FOR WHERE
THEY PROCURE THEIR ENERGY AND A
CHOICE WE DON&apos;T HAVE TODAY IN
THIS PARALLEL UTILITY WOULD NOT
DUPLICATE THE TRADITIONAL GRID
WITH ALL OF ITS VULNERABILITIES
BUT IT WOULD FOCUS ON
GENERATING CLEAN, RELIABLE AND
AFFORDABLE POWER.
NO SO THAT&apos;S WHAT THE CITY
BANABA IS LOOKING TO DO.
THE CREATION OF A SUSTAINABLE
ENERGY UTILITY.
WE ABBREVIATE IT AS I SEE YOU.
I&apos;LL TRY TO STAY OUT BECAUSE I
KNOW IT&apos;S NOT A TERM THAT MOST
PEOPLE ARE FAMILIAR WITH BUT
I&apos;LL DO MY BEST.
&gt;&gt; SO AS ENVISIONED A
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY UTILITY
WOULD FOCUS ON FOCUS FIRST ON
GENERATING LOCAL CLEAN ENERGY.
THAT&apos;S ENERGY THAT WOULD BE
DIRECTLY INTO OUR HOMES,
BUSINESSES, PLACES OF WORSHIP
AND COMMUNITY CENTERS.
THIS CLEAN ENERGY WOULD BE
PAIRED WITH STORAGE TO HELP
IMPROVE ENERGY RELIABILITY AND
OFFERED IN CONJUNCTION WITH
DEEP ENERGY WASTE REDUCTION
PROGRAMS TO HELP OUR RESIDENTS
LOWER THEIR ENERGY COSTS AND
USAGE ALL WHILE IMPROVING
COMFORT THE CONCEPT OF A
SUSTAINABLE UTILITY IS GROUNDED
IN CHOICE, PROVIDING AN
ARBITRATES ANOTHER WAY TO
PROCURE A LARGE PORTION
OF THEIR ENERGY WHEN THAT IS
COMING FROM CLEAN, LOCAL,
RELIABLE AND RESILIENT SOURCES
,THE SUSTAINABLE ENERGY
UTILITY WOULD ENABLE A LOT MORE
PEOPLE TO GET THE BENEFIT
OF SOLAR BY DIRECTLY PAYING FOR
INSTALLATION ON RESIDENTIAL AND
BUSINESS ROOFS, CARPORTS AND
VIA GRANDMOTHERHOOD SYSTEMS SO
RESIDENTS WOULDN&apos;T BE OWNER
OF THAT SOLAR SYSTEM THE PUBLIC
OR THE SUSTAINABLE ENERGY
UTILITY WOULD RESIDENTS WOULD
SUBSCRIBE TO PURCHASE THEIR
ENERGY AT A RATE THAT IS BASED
ON COST AND THE SUSTAINABLE
ENERGY UTILITIES OPERATION FROM
THE SYSTEM UNDER OR EVEN THEIR
NEIGHBORS.
IF ALL OF THE RESIDENTS POWER&apos;S
NEEDS ARE MET, THE EXCESS
GENERATION FROM THAT SOLAR
SYSTEM ON THE PROPERTY FLOWS
INTO THE BATTERY SYSTEM.
THIS MEANS THAT RESIDENTS COULD
STILL HAVE POWER IF THE BIG
TRADITIONAL GRID GOES DOWN.
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT&apos;S
ALREADY POSSIBLE TODAY.
&gt;&gt; ADDITIONALLY, THE
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY UTILITY
WOULD NOT BE LIMITED BY CURRENT
UTILITY RESTRICTIONS THAT
CONSTRAIN SOLAR SYSTEM SIZES
AND THE AMOUNT OF SOLAR ALLOWED
IN THE GRID WHICH IS LIKE THE
CURRENT ONE PERCENT CAP ON
SOLAR.
INSTEAD THE SUSTAINABLE ENERGY
UTILITY WOULD SEEK TO MAXIMIZE
SOLAR INSTALLATIONS LEVERAGING
ALL VIABLE SUNNY SPACE OVER
TIME INDIVIDUAL SOLAR SYSTEMS
WOULD BE CONNECTED THROUGH A
SERIES OF MICRO GRIDS NOT
DESCRIBE THE SUSTAINABLE ENERGY
UTILITY COULD ALSO OFFER A
SERIES OF ROBUST ENERGY WASTE
REDUCTION PROGRAMS HELPING
PEOPLE LOWER ENERGY DEMAND AND
IMPROVE THEIR COMFORT AND THEIR
HOMES.
&gt;&gt; THESE SERVICES WILL BE
AVAILABLE TO ANYONE THAT
PARTICIPATES SEA YOU KIND
OF LIKE AT CURRENT ENERGY WASTE
REDUCTION OFFERINGS THAT ARE
AVAILABLE THROUGH INCOME AND
UTILITY.
HOWEVER, WE COULD OFFER A SLEW
OF ADDITIONAL OPT-IN SERVICES
THAT INDIVIDUALS CAN USE TO
IMPROVE COMFORT , REDUCE BILLS
AND SAVE ENERGY.
THESE ADDITIONAL OFFERINGS CAN
BE FINANCED THROUGH FINANCE,
THROUGH AND FINANCING.
THE SEIU IS ABLE TO PAY THE
UPFRONT COST OF IMPROVEMENTS
SUCH AS ENERGY EFFICIENCY OR
ELECTRIFICATION UPGRADES OR
SWITCHING FROM FOSSIL FUEL TO
ELECTRICITY AND RESIDENTS PAY
BACK THE COSTS THROUGH THE
UTILITY BILLS AND THIS ALLOWS
THE COST OF THE IMPROVEMENTS TO
STAY WITH THE HOME AS OPPOSED
TO THE RESIDENT AND IT HELPS
REDUCE THE INITIAL UPFRONT
COSTS NEEDED TO MAKE
IMPROVEMENTS AT THIS MAKES
THESE TYPES OF IMPROVEMENTS
MUCH MORE ACCESSIBLE TO
RESIDENTS, ESPECIALLY LOW
INCOME INDIVIDUALS AND RENTERS.
INDIVIDUALS HISTORICALLY
OMITTED FROM THESE UTILITY
PROGRAMS THE SUSTAINABLE ENERGY
UTILITY WOULD ALSO PROVIDE
SUPPORT FOR BENEFICIAL
ELECTRIFICATION ENSURING THAT
WE HAVE SAFER, MORE COMFORTABLE
AND CLEANER HOMES AND
BUSINESSES AND EVENTUALLY OFFER
COMMUNITY SOLAR PROGRAMS SO
THAT INDIVIDUALS WITHOUT VIABLE
ACCESS CAN STILL REAP THE
BENEFITS OF CLEAN ENERGY AND
OTHER WORDS, A LOT TO DIGEST.
SO LET ME REITERATE THE CORE
OF A SUSTAINABLE ENERGY UTILITY
.
NSU IS A COMMUNITY OWNED
UTILITY THAT FOCUSES ON
GENERATING LOCAL CLEAN AND
RELIABLE ENERGY DOING AT BEST
IT&apos;S ABOUT LEVERAGING EXISTING
TECHNOLOGIES AND PRACTICES SUCH
AS SOLAR AND STORAGE TO REDUCE
EMISSIONS QUICKLY WHILE
IMPROVING RELIABILITY.
IT&apos;S ABOUT ENSURING THAT ALL IN
OUR BRAINS HAVE ACCESS
SOLUTIONS TO IMPROVE COMFORT WE
REDUCE BILLS AND BENEFITS THE
CLEAN ENERGY ECONOMY BCU AS I
MENTIONED BEFORE THIS IS ABOUT
GENERATING LOCALLY OWNED
RELIABLE, CLEAN AND AFFORDABLE
ENERGY BECAUSE WE GENERATE
LOCALLY WE DON&apos;T NEED A LARGE
AND BROWNER DISTRIBUTION
NETWORK.
IT&apos;S ALSO MEANS WE DON&apos;T HAVE
TO WORRY ABOUT BUYING A LOT
OF POLES AND WIRES OR ABOUT
EXTREME WEATHER EVENTS KNOCKING
THE SUPPLY POWER.
INSTEAD WE CAN FOCUS ON
GENERATING CLEAN RELIABLE LOCAL
ENERGY FAST AND REDUCING
POLLUTION RAPIDLY TO CLOSE OUT.
&gt;&gt; I JUST WANT TO SHARE A
HANDFUL OF EXAMPLES OF HOW THE
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY UTILITY
COULD WORK.
THIS ISN&apos;T LIKE AN ALL
INCLUSIVE LIST BUT SOME
EXAMPLES FOR HOW SOME OF THESE
CONCEPTS CONCEPTS I&apos;VE
DISCUSSED COULD WORK IN
PRACTICE.
SO STARTING WITH AN EXAMPLE
OF A HOMEOWNER OR A BUSINESS
OWNER WHO HAS GOOD SOLAR
POTENTIAL BUT DOESN&apos;T HAVE THE
CAPITAL OR ABILITY TO INSTALL
SOLAR ON THE ROOF.
&gt;&gt; IN THIS CASE THE INDIVIDUAL
WOULD SUBSCRIBE OR ENROLL IN
THE SUSTAINABLE ENERGY UTILITY
AS A SUPPLEMENTAL UTILITY.
THE FCC WOULD WORK WITH THAT
HOMEOWNER TO CONDUCT A NUCLEAR
ASSESSMENT IDENTIFYING
POTENTIAL ENERGY WASTE
REDUCTION AND OPPORTUNITIES.
SELECTED OPPORTUNITIES WILL BE
IMPLEMENTED AND THE HOMEOWNER
WOULD HAVE THE OPTION
OF FINANCING THOSE THROUGH THE
REFINANCE PROGRAM.
THE FCC WOULD STRIVE TO CREATE
A FINANCING PACKAGE WITH THE
ELECTRIC BILL IS THE SAME OR
IDEALLY LESS THAN WHAT THEY&apos;RE
CURRENTLY PAYING ONCE THOSE ARE
PAID OFF.
THE RESIDENT
THE FULL BENEFITS
OF THOSE IMPROVEMENTS
CONCURRENT WITH THE ABOVE THE
YOU INSTALL SOLAR ON THE ROOF
THE RESIDENT PAYS THEIR ENERGY
BILL AS THEY ALWAYS HAVE PAYING
PER KILOWATT HOUR OF USAGE
GENERATED FROM THE SOLAR SYSTEM
ANY ADDITIONAL POWER THEY DRAW
FROM DTE IS PAID DIRECTLY TO
DENHA IN THIS WAY THE PRESIDENT
HAS TWO BILLS THE ACTU BILL FOR
THE ENERGY USE SOLAR SYSTEM AND
ONE FOR DC TO POWER DRAWN FROM
THE GRID OF ANOTHER EXAMPLE IS
A RESIDENT OR BUSINESS THAT&apos;S
INTERESTED IN ENERGY WASTE
REDUCTION AND BENEFICIAL
ELECTRIFICATION OPTIONS BUT
THEY CAN&apos;T INSTALL SOLAR MAYBE
BECAUSE THEY HAVE SOME GREAT
TREES THAT&apos;S BLOCKING REALLY
GOOD SOLAR ACCESS TO THE ROOF
IN THIS CASE THE INDIVIDUAL
WOULD RECEIVE AN ONSITE
ASSESSMENT TO IDENTIFY ENERGY
PRODUCTION AND BENEFICIAL
ELECTRIC OPPORTUNITIES.
THEY WOULD THEN CHOOSE WHICH
OPTIONS TO MOVE FORWARD WITH
AND WOULD HAVE THE OPTION
OF FINANCING THEM THROUGH THE
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY UTILITIES
BILL MECHANISM, THE INDIVIDUAL
CAN REGISTER TO JOIN A MICRO OR
NATIONAL GRID AND SHARE POWER
WITH RESIDENTS THAT HAVE SOLAR
POTENTIAL.
ONCE ENOUGH OF THOSE NEIGHBORS
SIGN UP FOR THE THIS INDIVIDUAL
WOULD ALSO STILL RECEIVE TWO
ENERGY BILLS ONE FOR THE
PORTION OF THE IMPROVEMENTS
FINANCE WOULD BE A FAILURE AND
ONE FOR THE ENERGY THEY NEED
AND THEN A THIRD EXAMPLE IS A
RESIDENT WHO ALREADY HAS SOLAR
ON THEIR HOME OR BUSINESS.
&gt;&gt; IN THIS CASE THEY WOULD TAKE
ADVANTAGE OF ALL THE ENERGY
WASTE REDUCTION AND BENEFICIAL
ELECTRIFICATION SUPPORT OFFERED
BCU AND LEVERAGE ON BILL
CLINTON HAD SYMPATHY FOR THOSE
IMPROVEMENTS.
THIS RESIDENT COULD ENROLL FOR
AN SUV BATTERY IF YOU DON&apos;T
CURRENTLY HAVE ONE THEY CAN
ALSO ENROLL IN A SUSTAINABLE
ENERGY UTILITY AND SELL THEIR
EXCESS POWER TO THE SEIU SO IT
CAN BE DISTRIBUTED TO THEIR
NEIGHBORS.
SO KIND OF LIKE A I GO BACK
INSIDE NO, I LIKE THE INVERSE
OF THE SCENARIO OR THE OTHER
SIDE OF IT SHARE WITH THEIR
NEIGHBORS AND THEN THE RATES
FOR BEING SOLD THE STILL NEED
TO BE DETERMINED BUT AN INTENT
IS TO GET AS CLOSE AS POSSIBLE
TO NET METERING IN THIS WAY
THIS RESIDENT IS HELPING
PROVIDE POWER TO THE EU AND TO
THEIR NEIGHBORS.
OK, AND THEN A FOURTH EXAMPLE
IS A MULTIFAMILY RENTAL.
&gt;&gt; SO WE KNOW THAT OVER HALF
OF HOUSING UNITS ARE RENTALS.
SO I THINK IT&apos;S ALWAYS GOING TO
ADDRESS IN THIS CASE THE EU
WOULD WORK CLOSELY WITH
LANDLORDS AND PROPERTY OWNERS
AND ALSO TENANTS TO CUSTOMIZE
SOLUTIONS TO MEET INDIVIDUAL
NEEDS RENTAL UNITS ARE ELIGIBLE
FOR ALL THE SUSTAINABLE ENERGY
UTILITY OFFERINGS.
SO THAT&apos;S THE ENERGY WASTE
REDUCTION SOLAR AND STORAGE
INSTALLATION, BENEFICIAL
ELECTRIFICATION AND THEN
EVENTUALLY BEING TIED TIED TO
THE LOCAL MICROGRID.
THE CITIES WORK ON GREEN LEASES
PAIRED WITH THE BILL FINANCING
TOOLS OPERATIVE THE SUSTAINABLE
ENERGY UTILITY CAN HELP ENSURE
THE COST OF THE IMPROVEMENTS
STAY WITH THE BUILDING AND
ALLOW THE COST OF IMPROVEMENTS
TO BE SPREAD OVER LONGER
PERIODS OF TIME OFFERING
OFFERING THE OPPORTUNITY FOR ME
HEALTH SAFETY AND
COMFORT IMPROVEMENTS AT
REASONABLE COST.
THE LAST EXAMPLE RUN THROUGH IS
COMMUNITY SOLAR.
IN SOME CASES INDIVIDUALS MAY
NOT HAVE ACCESS TO ONSITE
RENEWABLE ENERGY GENERATION
OF ANYWHERE NEAR A COMMON AREA
SUCH AS A PARKING LOT, A SCHOOL
ROOFTOP PARKS OR OTHER SHARED
SPACES OF THEIR OFFICE WOULD BE
INSTALLED AND THEN INDIVIDUALS
CAN SUBSCRIBE TO TAKE A PORTION
OF THIS ENERGY TO HELP POWER
THEIR HOMES OR LIFE.
THE BUSINESS IN THIS WAY ANYONE
IN THE COMMUNITY CAN
PARTICIPATE YOU EVEN IF THEY
DON&apos;T OWN THEIR OWN HOME OR
DON&apos;T HAVE VIABLE OR POTENTIAL
ONSITE INDIVIDUALS THAT
SUBSCRIBE TO THE COMMUNITY
SOLAR OFFERING PAY PER KILOWATT
HOUR OF USAGE DIRECTLY TO
DIRECTLY TO THE ICU AND THEN
THEY PAID TO EA FOR ANY POWER
THEY USE FROM THAT UTILITIES
GRID IS THERE IS A FEW EXAMPLES
OF HOW THE PROPOSED YOU COULD
WORK IF YOU LIKE TO LEARN MORE
WE HAVE A WEBSITE TO GO OF THE
ORG BORGHI TO SEE YOU AND THEN
IF YOU&apos;RE INTERESTED IN SEEING
THE CITY MOVE FORWARD ARE TO
SEE YOU.
&gt;&gt; I REALLY WANT TO ENCOURAGE
YOU TO REGISTER YOUR INTEREST
BY TAKING A VERY SHORT FIVE
QUESTION SURVEY.
YOU CAN ACCESS THAT AT THE
SECOND BULLET POINT THAT&apos;S ALSO
AVAILABLE TO GOVERNMENT OR
EIGHTY RESCUE SITE AND THEN IF
YOU HAVE ANY ADDITIONAL
QUESTIONS YOU CAN GO AHEAD AND
FROM THOSE TO SUSTAINABILITY AT
A TOOK UP DOUG, SO THANK YOU SO
MUCH FOR LETTING ME SHARE A BIT
ABOUT THE PROPOSED IN ALBERTA
ENERGY UTILITY A CLEAN,
RELIABLE, LOCALLY BUILT AND
AFFORDABLE WAY TO POWER OUR
COMMUNITY AND I THINK.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THAT WAS VERY, VERY IN AND I
THINK, YOU KNOW, WONDERFUL.
I THINK SUSTAINABILITY IS KEY
FOLKS IN HOW WE&apos;RE LIVING IS A
GREAT COMMUNITY AND AND AS A
CITY AND I THINK WE CAN
INNOVATORS AND AN EXAMPLE.
SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
DO WE HAVE ANY DO WE WANT TO
LIMIT IT TO LIKE ONE OR TWO
QUESTIONS AT THE MOMENT SHE
DOESN&apos;T MIND.
&gt;&gt; DO WE HAVE ANY QUESTIONS FOR
HER RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER MOZELIAK, THANK
YOU.
I HAVE TWO QUICK QUESTIONS.
MY FIRST QUESTION IS WOULD IT
BE POSSIBLE FOR US TO GET A
COPY OF YOUR SLIDE PRESENTATION
?
AND THEN MY SECOND QUESTION IS
HOW DO LOCAL GOVERNMENT
BUILDINGS, LOCAL SCHOOLS AND
OUR HOUSING COMMISSION FIGURE
INTO THIS PLAN?
BECAUSE IT SEEMS TO ME THAT
THAT&apos;S SORT OF A BUILT-IN
STARTING POINT.
&gt;&gt; BUT I DIDN&apos;T HEAR YOU
MENTION ANY OF THOSE.
YEAH, THOSE ARE SOME THAT ARE
CURRENTLY UNDER DISCUSSION
OF WHERE AND HOW THEY COULD FIT
INTO THE ICU.
I AGREE THAT THEY ARE KIND
OF SOME OF THE MORE LIKE
INSTITUTIONS IN ANN ARBOR THAT
ARE THESE LIKE GROUPS
OF BUILDINGS MIGHT MAKE A LOT
SENSE BUT SOMETHING WE&apos;RE
CURRENTLY ALREADY HAVING
CONVERSATIONS ABOUT AND I&apos;M
HAPPY TO FOLLOW UP BUT ONCE WE
ARE MORE AWESOME ANY OTHER
QUESTIONS I SEE WE GOT IT HAND
RAISED.
&gt;&gt; OK, MR. SOLOMON, HI.
THANKS FOR THAT VERY DETAILED
PRESENTATION.
MY QUESTION IS JUST SORT
OF LIKE WHERE THINGS STAND WITH
THIS INITIATIVE.
OBVIOUSLY IT&apos;S GOING TO REQUIRE
A GREAT DEAL OF CAPITAL.
IT&apos;S GOING TO REQUIRE A LOT
OF COMMUNITY SUPPORT.
WHERE DOES IT STAND?
IT SEEMS KIND OF IN AN
EXPLORATORY PHASE OR HOW WOULD
YOU DESCRIBE IT?
&gt;&gt; YEAH, WE HAD AN INITIAL
REPORT THAT&apos;S PRETTY TECHNICAL
THAT CAME I THINK LAST YEAR.
I APOLOGIZE.
I HAVE BEEN TIMING THIS IS
MESSED UP A LITTLE BIT.
I THINK LAST YEAR THAT&apos;S
AVAILABLE ONLINE.
IF YOU WANT TO READ THE MORE
TECHNICAL REPORT AND THEN FROM
CITY COUNCIL&apos;S DIRECTION, WE&apos;RE
NOW PURSUING A MORE
SPECIFICALLY TECHNICAL ANALYSIS
BOTH OF YOU AND A TECHNICAL
MUNICIPALITY OR A TRADITIONAL
MECHANIZE ATTRITIONAL MUNICIPAL
UTILITY THROUGH AN OPTIONS
ANALYSIS AND I&apos;M PARALLEL TO
THAT WE&apos;RE CURRENTLY
REGISTERING PUBLIC INTEREST SO
WE&apos;RE TRYING TO TAKE THE GAUGE
AND HOW ANYBODY FEELS ABOUT
THIS.
THAT&apos;S A REALLY ENCOURAGING
FOLKS TO GO TO THAT WEBSITE AND
TAKE THAT VERY BRIEF SURVEY SO
YES TO BOTH OF WHAT WE&apos;RE
CURRENTLY WORKING ON WONDERFUL
.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS THAT I HAVE
ONE QUICK ONE.
SO WHAT KIND OF WHAT KIND
OF RESPONSES HAVE YOU GOTTEN SO
FAR FROM THE COMMUNITY OTHER
OTHER DEVELOPERS AND THEN OTHER
BUSINESSES AROUND THE
COMMUNITY?
YOU HAVE SEEN THE BENEFITS
OF THIS AND HOW IT CAN HELP NOT
ONLY THE ENVIRONMENT BUT IT CAN
HELP IN TERMS OF , YOU KNOW,
JUST BEING SUSTAINABLE AND HOW
WE LIVE AND AND HOW WE OPERATE
IT.
&gt;&gt; WE DEFINITELY SOME INTEREST
FOR LIKE I AM EXCITED TO SEE
HOW THINGS MOVE FORWARD IF THEY
DO WITH OUR SCHOOLS AND
INTEREST THERE.
I THINK THERE IS INTEREST AND
ONE THAT IS A BIG PART OF THIS
IS HAVING IMPROVED RELIABILITY
AND RESILIENCE WHEN PEOPLE
REALLY FEEL A PAIN LIKE LAST
AUGUST WHEN WE HAVE THIS FOUR
DAY LONG POWER OUTAGE AND ALL
OF OUR FOOD ATE IT UP AND FROM
THE FRIDGE OF THE TRASH WHAT SO
THERE OTHER A LOT OF PAIN OUT
THERE.
THERE&apos;S A LOT OF PAIN EVEN TO
THIS DAY TO DAY AND POWER
RELIABILITY OF SO THAT&apos;S JUST
LIKE KNOWING ON A TYPICAL DAY
YOUR POWER IS GOING TO STAY ON
THE BASIS OF THOSE TWO FACTORS
A LOT OF INTEREST AND THEN
WE&apos;RE KIND OF LIKE CAPTURE THAT
SPECIFIC INTEREST AND ANY
ADDITIONAL QUESTIONS, CONCERNS
OR COMMENTS IN THE SURVEY THAT
WE&apos;RE CURRENTLY RUNNING.
&gt;&gt; SO I&apos;M REALLY EXCITED TO
HEAR WHAT WE LEARN FROM THAT
AWESOME AWESOME.
THANK YOU AGAIN FOR ALL THE
WORK THAT YOU DO ON YOUR OFFICE
OF SUSTAINABILITY ARE DOING AT
THIS POINT.
ARE THERE ANY OTHER LAST
QUESTIONS AND THEN BY THE WAY,
YES.
IF YOU DON&apos;T MIND IF YOU COULD
SEND US THAT PRESENTATION, I
THINK THAT WOULD BE GREAT FOR
OTHERS TO VIEW AND HOPEFULLY
THAT&apos;S NOT TOO MUCH TROUBLE.
&gt;&gt; BUT THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR
YOUR TIME.
WE APPRECIATE IT COMMUTED.
&gt;&gt; OH, I APOLOGIZE.
I AM HAPPY TO
SHOW THAT OVER.
&gt;&gt; I WAS CHECKING THAT I WASN&apos;T
ALREADY ON THE AGENDA SO
DEFINITELY OK.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON C OH IT ACTUALLY IS
ON THE AGENDA HERE FOLKS.
OK, SO LET&apos;S SEE.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON NOW.
OOPS.
LOOKS LIKE THIS GOT MOVED DOWN
A LITTLE BIT OUT OF ORDER FOLKS
BUT I&apos;LL I&apos;LL DO THIS JUST
BEFORE RECRUITING ACTIVITY
BECAUSE I WANT TO MAKE SURE
THAT WE GET OUR PRESENTATION
FINISHED.
BUT NEXT WE HAVE A PRESENTATION
FROM THE WASHTENAW LIBRARY FOR
THE BLIND AND PHYSICALLY
DISABLED AND KATIE MCKEVITT.
&gt;&gt; SO KATIE, WELCOME.
&gt;&gt; HI.
HI EVERYBODY.
GOOD TO SEE YOU AND GOOD TO BE
HERE AS USUAL.
I HAVE A COUPLE OF UPCOMING
EVENTS TO SHARE WITH YOU ALL.
WE HAVE AN EVENT COMING UP ON
REGENERATIVE AGRICULTURE.
WHAT IS IT HOW CAN IT SAVE THE
PLANET AND HOW OUR LOCAL
FARMERS PUTTING IT INTO
PRACTICE THAT WILL BE ABLE 20
SECONDS FROM SIX THIRTY TO
EIGHT P.M. THAT&apos;S A FRIDAY AT
THE WEST GATE BRANCH FIVE AREA
FARMERS ARE COMING TOGETHER TO
DISCUSS HOW THEY PRACTICE
REGENERATIVE AGRICULTURE AND
WHY DOING SO IS IMPORTANT TO
THEM AND TO THE PLANET.
PANELISTS WILL REPRESENT OLD
CITY ACRS FROM BELLVILLE,
BASELINE FARM FROM DEXTER.
THE COMMUNITY FARM OF ANN ARBOR
AND THE GREEN THINGS THE FARM
COLLECTIVE FROM ANN ARBOR.
THEN WE HAVE AN AUTHOR TALK AND
DEMONSTRATION FOR THE BOOK
CHANCE ENCOUNTERS WITH DAVID
XEN.
IT&apos;S VERY EXCITING.
THAT WILL BE ON SATURDAY APRIL
TWENTY THIRD FROM TWO TO THREE
P.M. AT THE DOWNTOWN LIBRARY
OUTSIDE UNDER THE TENT ON THE
CORNER OF LIBRARY LANE AND
FIFTH AVENUE WE ARE GOING TO
HAVE A RENOWNED ANN ARBOR
SIDEWALK TALK ARTIST DAVID
ZENN.
HE&apos;S BACK WITH HIS NEW BOOK
COME JOIN US.
BUT DAVID&apos;S DEMONSTRATION AND
CREATE YOUR OWN CHUKKA WITH
YOUR FAMILY.
NIKOLA&apos;S BOOKS WILL BE ON SITE
COPIES OF DAVID&apos;S NEW BOOK
CHANCE ENCOUNTERS TEMPORARY
STREET ART.
&gt;&gt; HE WILL HANG OUT AFTERWARDS
AND HE&apos;LL BE SIGNED.
HE&apos;LL BE SIGNING BOOKS AT THE
EVENT AS WELL.
THEN WE HAVE A FILM SCREENING
COMING UP FOR THE FILM WHO
KILLED VINCENT CHIN?
THAT&apos;S ON TUESDAY, MAY 3RD FROM
SIX TO SEVEN THIRTY PM AT THE
DOWNTOWN LIBRARY ON A HOT
SUMMER NIGHT IN DETROIT, RONALD
EVANS, AN AUTO WORKER KILLED A
YOUNG CHINESE AMERICAN ENGINEER
WITH A BASEBALL BAT ALTHOUGH HE
CONFESSED HE NEVER SPENT A DAY
IN JAIL.
THIS GRIPPING ACADEMY AWARD
NOMINATED FILM RELENTLESSLY
PROBES THE IMPLICATIONS
OF MURDER IN THE STREETS
OF DETROIT FOR THE FAMILIES
OF THOSE INVOLVED AND FOR THE
AMERICAN JUSTICE SYSTEM AND
FINALLY FOR EVENTS.
I WANT YOU ALL TO SAVE THE DATE
FOR VISIONS TWENTY TWENTY TWO
IT&apos;S GOING TO BE THAT&apos;S OUR
TECHNOLOGY FAIR FOR PEOPLE WHO
ARE VISUALLY AND PHYSICALLY
DISABLED AND THAT IS GOING TO
BE ON WEDNESDAY, JUNE 8TH AT
THE DOWNTOWN LIBRARY.
AND I&apos;M GOING TO HAVE SOME MORE
DETAILS TO SHARE WITH YOU ALL
NEXT MONTH&apos;S MEETING.
SO I&apos;LL GIVE YOU SOME SOME FULL
ANNOUNCEMENTS THEN.
BUT THIS IS JUST A LITTLE SNEAK
FOR THAT.
LET&apos;S SEE.
I THINK IN THE INTEREST OF TIME
TODAY I&apos;M GOING TO SKIP
MENTIONING SOME SPECIFIC
MATERIALS OF TODAY.
BUT I JUST WANT TO REMIND YOU
THAT WASHTENAW LIBRARY FOR THE
BLIND AND PRINT DISABLED
PATRONS CAN ORDER DIGITAL
CARTRIDGES AND RECEIVE ANY SORT
OF HELP FROM US BY CALLING
SEVEN, THREE, FOUR, THREE TWO
SEVEN FOUR TWO TWO FOUR OR YOU
CAN ALWAYS EMAIL US AT W ELBY P
D AT A A D LD ORG AND TO SIGN
UP FOR THE BRAILLE AND AUDIO
READING SERVICE BAAD TO
DOWNLOAD YOUR OWN BOOKS AND
CHOOSE FROM TENS OF THOUSANDS
OF TITLES VISIT AND BAADE THAT
LOCY SEEGA OR CALL US AND WE
CAN ASSIST YOU WITH THE
APPLICATION.
&gt;&gt; DOES ANYBODY HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS FOR ME BEFORE I GO
TODAY.
WELL AWESOME STUFF AND DAVIDSEN
WHAT AN EXCITING BOOK HE&apos;S IN
ANN ARBOR TREASURE.
WONDERFUL JOB.
SO VERY EXCITING ABOUT THAT.
AND AS ALWAYS FOLKS, IF YOU&apos;VE
NEVER VISITED THE ANN ARBOR
LIBRARY FOR THE BLIND AND
PHYSICALLY DISABLED, PLEASE
GIVE IT A CHANCE.
IT&apos;S QUITE A QUITE AN AWESOME
PLACE.
I HAVE A LOT OF GREAT MEMORIES
THERE AND I DEFINITELY LOVE
FREQUENTING THE LIBRARY.
SO THANK YOU SO MUCH KATIE FOR
YOU AND ALL LIBRARY DUKE.
&gt;&gt; YOU&apos;RE WELCOME.
THANKS ZACH AND THANKS
EVERYBODY FOR HAVING ME BY.
ALL RIGHT.
AWESOME.
CUNEK STUFF I&apos;D LIKE TO GIVE UP
IF YOU DON&apos;T MIND BECAUSE I&apos;D
LIKE TO JUST DO IF YOU GUYS
DON&apos;T MIND I&apos;D LIKE TO DO THE
APPROVAL OF THE MEETING MINUTES
FROM APRIL.
SO I&apos;M YEAH I&apos;M SORRY NOT APRIL
BUT MARCH.
SO IF YOU COULD JUST TAKE A
GANDER AT THOSE FOLKS OR IF
THERE ARE ANY QUESTIONS OR
EDITS FOR THE MEETING MINUTES
AT THIS TIME I&apos;M SORRY KATHLEEN
&gt;&gt; YOU HAD YOUR HANDS RAISED.
GO AHEAD.
I WAS JUST GOING TO HAVE TO END
IT SO WHENEVER YOU&apos;RE READY OH
OK.
&gt;&gt; SO YEAH.
SO IF THERE ARE ANY EDITS OR
CORRECTIONS AT THIS TIME FOR
THE MEETING MINUTES, PLEASE
FEEL FREE TO SPEAK UP NOW AND
LET US KNOW EXACTLY GO AHEAD.
SORRY ABOUT THAT.
I GOT A LITTLE EXCITED AND I
JUST HAVE TO AT THE BEGINNING
OF THE MEETING THE MEETING
FRACTIONED SAYS LARRY WHEELER
AND I BELIEVE IT SHOULD BE
KILER AND THEN THE OTHER ONE IS
UNDER THE COUNSEL REPORT FOR
COUNSEL FOR DISABILITY
CONCERNS.
IT SAYS THE COMMISSION MET IT
SHOULD BE THE COUNCIL MET
BECAUSE IT&apos;S NOT A COMMISSION.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S ALL I HAVE.
THANK YOU.
KNOW, THOSE ARE IMPORTANT
POINTS WE WANT TO GET LARRY&apos;S
NAME CORRECT AND OF COURSE YES,
YOU ARE A COUNSEL.
THAT&apos;S VERY IMPORTANT.
SO THANK YOU.
I&apos;LL MAKE THOSE ABSOLUTELY.
THANK YOU FOLKS.
ANY OTHER EDITS FOR THE MEETING
MINUTES OF LAST MONTH?
I WORK I WOULD MOVE TO APPROVE
THE AGENDA.
&gt;&gt; I WOULD MOVE TO APPROVE THE
MINUTES WITH THE CORRECT
PROCRASTINATION.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT LARRY MOVE STILL
APPROVE THE MINUTES.
IS THERE A SECOND ALL RIGHT.
I SECOND OK, RACHEL SECONDS
REALLY QUICK FOLKS IF YOU DON&apos;T
MIND ALL IN FAVOR IF YOU COULD
JUST RAISE YOUR RIGHT HAND AND
THEN YOU CAN SAY AY AY AY AY.
WONDERFUL.
I THANK YOU GUYS SO MUCH.
THE MEETING MINUTES FROM LAST
MONTH ARE PROVED WONDERFUL SO
WE DID GET THAT OUT OF THE WAY
AND NOW A GREAT GREAT
PRESENTATIONS YET AGAIN VERY
EXCITED.
THANK YOU BOTH FOR YOUR
PATIENCE.
BUT I&apos;D LIKE TO INTRODUCE FROM
THE ANTHROPOCENE CENTER FOR
INDEPENDENT LIVING JOYCE BLAIR.
SO JOYCE, THANK YOU FOR JOINING
US AND THANK YOU FOR YOUR
PATIENCE.
&gt;&gt; HOW ARE YOU?
THANK YOU VERY THANKS.
GOOD EVENING EVERYONE.
THE CENTER FOR INDEPENDENT
LIVING IS IN THE MIDDLE OF A
WONDERFUL FILM FESTIVAL WHERE
WE ARE WATCHING FILMS AND
DISCUSSING DISABILITY RIGHTS,
THE HISTORY AND THE SITUATION
OF DISABILITY RIGHTS IN THE
UNITED STATES.
THE FILM FESTIVAL IS ENTITLED
TO NOTHING ABOUT US WITHOUT
FESTIVAL AND IT WILL CULMINATE
WITH A FILM CALLED BOTTOM
DOLLARS.
SO TODAY WAS THE SECOND DAY
OF THE FILM FESTIVAL.
THERE&apos;S STILL TIME TO REGISTER
FOR THE COMBINATION TOMORROW
THOSE FILMS WILL TAKE PLACE IN
THE MORNING AND IN THE EVENING
AND WE DISCUSSED THE HISTORICAL
ROOTS OF DISABILITY AND
OPPORTUNITIES FOR CHANGE,
EQUALITY, INCLUSION AND AND
FURTHER OPPORTUNITIES IN
EMPLOYMENT.
SO ONE OF THE ISSUES THAT WE&apos;RE
DISCUSSING IS A SUB MINIMUM
WAGE FOR PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES IN MICHIGAN AND
WE&apos;RE TRYING TO ADDRESS THAT.
SO COME ON OUT AND JOIN US ALL
THE EVENTS THAT I&apos;M GOING TO
DISCUSS ARE AVAILABLE ON OUR
WEBSITE, THE REGISTRATION AND
LINKS TO MORE INFORMATION AT W
W W ANN ARBOR S.I DOUG, ONE
OF THE LAST FILM YOU CAN FIND
FROM
MURRO IS PRESENTATION
DISABILITY AND THE MEDIA FROM
ONE TO FOUR THAT PROMISES TO BE
A REALLY GREAT TIME WHEN WE
HAVE A VIRTUAL MOVIE CLUB AT
THE CENTER FOR INDEPENDENT
LIVING ON THE WEEK OF APRIL
TWENTY EIGHT THERE IS NOT A
MOVIE THIS WEEK BUT PADDINGTON
IS GOING TO BE THE MOVIE FOR
THE VIRTUAL MOVIE CLUB AND
REGISTRY&apos;S MISSION IS THROUGH
ANNA AT A SEATTLE OR WE ALSO
HAVE A VIRTUAL ART CLASS THAT
THE ART CLASSES IN A RELAXED
ONLINE SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT WE
THEY ROTATE THROUGH DIFFERENT
MEDIA AND USE NEW MATERIALS AND
TECHNIQUES IN A GUIDED MANNER.
THERE&apos;S A FACILITATOR THAT IS
JUST WONDERFUL.
NO PREVIOUS EXPERIENCE IS
NECESSARY AND IT&apos;S A GREAT
SOCIAL OUTLET FOR PEOPLE.
NO SPECIAL EQUIPMENT OR
SUPPLIES ARE NEEDED AND THOSE
CLASS TAKE PLACE ON TUESDAYS
AND THURSDAYS AND SO SEE OUR
WEBSITE FOR FURTHER INFORMATION
TRIVIA TUESDAYS GET SILLY GET
GOOFY MOST OF ALL PUT ON YOUR
THINKING
THAT&apos;S TUESDAYS ONE
THIRTY TO TWO THIRTY P.M. AND
EVERY TUESDAY WE GET TOGETHER
TO PLAY TRIVIA WHETHER YOU LIKE
EASY QUESTIONS OR THE TOUGH
ONES JOIN US FOR SOME TUESDAY
FUN.
WE TALK ABOUT IDEAS, SOLUTIONS
AND PROBLEM SOLVING FOR
WHATEVER DISABILITY RELATED
CHALLENGES YOU MIGHT BE HAVING
AND YOU PARTICIPATE ON ZOOM OR
BY TELEPHONE BE ACTIVE AT HOME
SPIRIT CLUB INCLUSIVE FITNESS.
ARE YOU LOOKING TO STAY ACTIVE
AT HOME TO CONNECT WITH OTHERS?
OUR FITNESS CLUB WELCOMES ALL
ABILITIES WITH THREE DIFFERENT
ADAPTATIONS OF EXERCISES ALL ON
ONE SCREEN.
PARTICIPANTS ARE WELCOME TO DO
THE WORKOUT AS PRESENTED OR
MODIFY IT AS THEY ARE
COMFORTABLE THAT HAPPENS
MONDAYS AND WEDNESDAYS FROM
FOUR TO FIVE P.M. AND THEN
THERE IS A SPINAL CORD INJURY
VIRTUAL MEET THAT WILL HAPPEN
NEXT ON MAY THE 3RD TWELVE TO
ONE THIRTY PM FACILITATED BY
TOM HOTLINKS.
HE CAN BE EMAILED AT TOM AT A
SKYTEL DOT ORG.
MEMBERS OF THE COMMUNITY ARE
INVITED TO JOIN US FOR THE
DISABILITY COMMUNITY ACTION
LAB, A POLITICAL ADVOCACY
ORGANIZATION, A GROUP THAT
TALKS ABOUT CURRENT ISSUES THAT
WE WANT TO ADVOCATE FOR WITH
OUR LEGISLATORS.
&gt;&gt; LET&apos;S SEE THE USE OF THEM
ADAPTIVE SPORTS AND FITNESS HAS
A PROGRAM THAT IS OPEN TO ALL
COMMUNITY MEMBERS ON A DROPPED
BASIS AT NO COST MASKS AND
COVID VACCINATION ARE REQUIRED
OF ALL PARTICIPANTS.
THEN YOU MUST REGISTER THREE
DAYS IN ADVANCE THE INFORMATION
LINK IS ON OUR WEBSITE.
THURSDAY IS EIGHT TO 10 P.M.
MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY SEVEN
THIRTY TO NINE THIRTY PM IS
TRACK AND FIELD THAT FIRST AND
I&apos;M SORRY WAS WHEELCHAIR TENNIS
AND THEN WHEELCHAIR BASKETBALL
SIX THIRTY TO EIGHT THIRTY ON
WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS ONE
THIRTY TO THREE THIRTY PM AT
VARIOUS LOCATIONS AT THE
UNIVERSITY SO SEE OUR WEBSITE
FOR MORE INFORMATION AND
DEFENSIBILITY ON ZOOME WE HAVE
DEFENSIBILITY CAN BE HIGH
ENERGY OR SLOW AND GENTLE SO
COME AS YOU ARE AND COCREATOR
DANCING AND DIVERSE COMMUNITY
THE CLASSES FOR PEOPLE WITH AND
WITHOUT DISABILITIES WITH AND
WITHOUT FORMAL DANCE TRAINING
COST IS ZERO TO TWO HUNDRED
DEPENDING ON YOUR ABILITY TO
PAY THESE CLASSES AH EVERY
OTHER WEDNESDAY VIRTUALLY FIVE
THIRTY SEVEN PM THROUGH JUNE
THE TWENTY SECOND THE
REGISTRATION LINK IS ON THE ANN
ARBOR CENTER FOR INDEPENDENT
LIVING WEBSITE AND LOVINGSTON
COUNTY.
THERE ARE SOME SOCIAL EVENTS
WITH SPECIAL MINISTRIES AND
THOSE ARE LISTED ON OUR WEBSITE
AND THERE ARE SORT OF NUMEROUS
I DON&apos;T THINK I&apos;M GOING TO LIST
ALL OF THEM.
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN IS
CONDUCTING A RESEARCH STUDY
ABOUT THE USE OF MANUAL
WHEELCHAIR&apos;S.
THE RESEARCHERS ARE SEEKING
BOTH WHEELCHAIR USERS AND NON
WHEELCHAIR USERS TO
PARTICIPATE.
YOU MUST BE AGED 50 PLUS TO
PARTICIPATE TO PARTICIPATE AND
PARTICIPANTS WILL RECEIVE FORTY
DOLLARS PLUS TEN DOLLARS FOR
PARKING.
THE CONTACT INFORMATION IS ON
OUR WEBSITE BUT THE PHONE
NUMBER IS SEVEN THREE FOUR
SEVEN SIX FOUR NINE NINE SIX
FIVE.
IF YOU RECEIVE MEDICAID HOME
AND COMMUNITY BASED SERVICES
THE DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN
SERVICES WOULD LIKE TO HEALTH
AND HUMAN SERVICES IN MICHIGAN
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK TO YOU AND
IS SEEKING YOUR FEEDBACK.
FOR MORE INFORMATION ON THAT
STUDY PLEASE SEE OUR WEBSITE
BECAUSE I DON&apos;T SEE AN EMAIL
ADDRESS HERE.
YOUR INPUT IS NEEDED FOR
SLURRED SPEECH TECHNOLOGY
STUDENTS AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN ARE SEEKING INPUT
FROM INDIVIDUALS WITH SLURRED
SPEECH AS THEY DEVELOP
TECHNOLOGY TO PROVIDE
INDEPENDENCE FOR INDIVIDUALS ON
THE STANDARD SPEECH SPECTRUM
PARTICIPANTS ARE ENTERED INTO A
DRAWING FOR A ONE HUNDRED
DOLLAR GIFT CARD THAT CAN BE
ACCESS THROUGH MEROS AT UMESH
THAT EDU AND THAT&apos;S SPELLED M A
Y A R O AT UT MICH EDU VISION
DISABILITIES AND BEAUTY
PRODUCTS RESEARCHERS UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN ARE INVESTIGATING
ISSUES RELATED TO BEAUTY
PRODUCT DESCRIPTIONS AND VISION
DISABILITIES.
IF YOU HAVE A VISION DISABILITY
AND USE BEAUTY PRODUCTS YOU CAN
SIGN UP FOR THIS STUDY IS THE
ADDRESS.
THE EMAIL ADDRESS IS K L P H I
L L I F YOU MICH THAT EDU.
&gt;&gt; THERE ARE SEVERAL OTHER
STUDIES HERE.
ONE IS SPINAL CORD INJURY AND
PREGNANCY.
THE ANN OF CENTER FOR
INDEPENDENT LIVING HAS THE MOST
SUPPORT GROUP THAT MEETS ON
MONDAYS FROM SEVEN TO EIGHT
PURDIE.
THE LINK IS ON OUR WEBSITE OR
YOU CAN CALL JODI AT SEVEN
THREE FOUR SIX SIX THREE ZERO
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE.
THERE IS A MOVIE WATCHING CLUB
ORGANIZED BY JAMES WHO IS A
CONSUMER.
GET TOGETHER AND GO TO THE
MOVIE THEATER AND WATCH ACTION
AND SUPERHERO MOVIES AFTER THE
MOVIE THEY GO TO A NEARBY
RESTAURANT AT ANY ONE.
THIS IS OPEN TO ANYONE THAT IS
EIGHTEEN PLUS WHO LOVES MOVIES.
IT&apos;S ONCE PER MONTH ON
SATURDAYS YOU CAN VISIT THE
GROUP WEBSITE OR CONTACT JAMES
BY CONTACTING THE ANN ARBOR CIA
WEBSITE THE CENTER FOR
INDEPENDENT LIVING WOULD LIKE
TO ADVISE EVERYONE THAT IF YOU
HAVE AN OLDER PHONE OR OR
ANOTHER DEVICE THAT MAY BE
LOSING ITS DATA SERVICE SOON
DEVICES USING A 3G NETWORK
INCLUDING MINE TECHNOLOGY WILL
NO LONGER GET SERVICE STARTING
MARCH THROUGH DECEMBER
OF TWENTY TWENTY TWO.
THIS INCLUDES OLDER PHONES,
MEDICAL ALERT DEVICES, TABLETS,
SMART WATCHES, HOME SECURITY
SYSTEMS AND MORE AT&amp;T, VERIZON
AND OTHER CARRIERS WILL NOTIFY
SUBSCRIBERS IF YOUR 3G SERVICE
WILL BE ANYTHING BUT SOME USERS
MAY NOT GET NOTIFIED.
SO IF YOU ARE UNSURE OF YOUR
DEVICE AND YOU NEED MORE
INFORMATION PLEASE CONTACT US
AND THE BEST WAY TO CONTACT THE
CENTER FOR INDEPENDENT LIVING
IS INFO AT A SEA ORG.
THE AUTISM MEETUP GROUP PEER
GROUP FOR ADULTS AGES 18 AND
OVER WITH AUTISM IN
COLLABORATION WITH THE
DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES
COUNCIL OF MICHIGAN AND THE
ENTIRE BURSILL MEETS ONLINE THE
FIRST TUESDAY OF EVERY MONTH
SIX TO EIGHT P.M. FOR FURTHER
INFORMATION PLEASE EMAIL EZZY
AND I BE YOU L L O K AT EIGHT
A.M. OR AND FINALLY IF YOU&apos;RE
INTERESTED IN VISITING OUR
FACEBOOK PAGE WE HAVE A
FACEBOOK PAGE AND A TWITTER
PAGE AND YOU&apos;RE WELCOME TO JOIN
US ON THOSE PAGES.
OUR BUILDING REMAINS CLOSED TO
THE PUBLIC.
WE&apos;LL BE MAKING AN ANNOUNCEMENT
FOR FUTURE EVENTS COMING SOON.
THANK YOU.
DOES ANYONE HAVE ANY QUESTIONS
FOR ME?
THANK YOU SO MUCH, JOYCE AND I
WANTED TO TO ASK TO OUR FELLOW
COMMISSIONER AND THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR OF THE CENTER FOR
INDEPENDENT LIVING, ALEX
GOSSAGE.
DID YOU HAVE ANY ADDITIONAL
POINTS OF INFORMATION?
&gt;&gt; I DO NOT.
JOYCE WAS INCREDIBLY TONIGHT.
THANK YOU.
I HAVE SOMETHING LEGISLATIVE
ALEX.
I CAN SEND SOMETHING OUT TO THE
GROUP ABOUT THAT LATER.
OK, THANK YOU THOUGH.
THANK YOU SO MUCH AND JUST
WANTED TO SAY THANK YOU SO MUCH
TO BOTH OF YOU AND FOR
EVERYTHING THAT THE NRA CENTER
FOR INDEPENDENT LIVING DOES
THEY INDEED ARE A HOME AWAY
FROM HOME FOR PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES IN THE COMMUNITY
AND ACROSS THE CITY.
SO AGAIN, AS THEY SAID FOR MORE
INFORMATION, THE CENTER CENTER
FOR INDEPENDENT LIVING PLEASE
VISIT THEIR WEBSITE AT A CIO.
DOUG, WONDERFUL.
NEXT WE HAVE THE PARTNERS AND
ACCESS COMMITTEE PARTNERS IN
ACCESS AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
COMMITTEE REPORTS WITH ALEX
GOSSAGE AND RACHEL HAWKINS.
GOOD EVENING EVERYBODY.
I WILL BE SUPER QUICK NOT AS
EVENTFUL OF A MONTH AS WE HAD
MORE RECENTLY WITH SOME GREAT
MEETINGS WE&apos;VE HAD WITH
CASSELMAN NELSON AND OUR BILL
RELATED TO THE PEDESTRIAN
SIGNALS AS WELL AS SOME OTHER
MEETINGS THAT WE&apos;VE BEEN ABLE
TO HAVE.
BUT LARRY AND I DID MEET AND
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WE HAD
DISCUSSED AND I THINK ZACH WILL
TALK A LITTLE BIT MORE ABOUT IT
IN HIS REPORT OUT WAS WE BOTH
AGREED THAT WE THOUGHT IT WOULD
BE A GOOD IDEA FOR THE
COMMISSION TO TAKE PART OF THE
DIVISIONS CONFERENCE THAT THE
LIBRARY WILL BE HOLDING.
SO LET&apos;S TALK A LITTLE BIT MORE
ABOUT THAT AND THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S
ALL WE HAVE TO REPORT THIS
MONTH.
ALL RIGHT.
AND BEFORE I DO THAT AND BEFORE
I DO THAT IN THE GAO REPORT, I
DON&apos;T LIKE TO GIVE IT OVER TO
RACHEL HAWKINS.
THANK YOU.
SO I JUST WANTED TO ADD IN
REGARDS TO ANN ARBOR INCLUSIVE
SO THEY&apos;RE THERE NEXT NEXT TO
SHOW IS PREMIERING ON THIS
FRIDAY, APRIL.
TWENTY SECOND FOR THIRTY PM ON
C10 AND IT&apos;S WHAT THE FOUNDER
OF WE CAN&apos;T WAIT DISCUSSING THE
AUTO NO-FAULT REFORM.
SO IF YOUR INTERESTED IN THIS
DISCUSSION ABOUT THE AUTO
NO-FAULT REFORM THAT
WOULD BE
SOMETHING PROBABLY OF INTEREST
TO YOU.
THE MARCH SHOW IS ALSO UP ON
YOUTUBE AS WELL AND THAT
FOCUSES ON THE
MULTIDISCIPLINARY COLLABORATIVE
COURSE AT UNIVERSITY OF DETROIT
MERCY WHICH PAIRS ENGINEERING
STUDENTS AND NURSING STUDENTS
WITH CLIENTS WHO HAVE PHYSICAL
DISABILITIES BUILD MEDICALLY
SAFE DEVICE TO IMPROVE THEIR
QUALITY OF LIFE.
&gt;&gt; SO THAT IS ALSO UP THERE
NOW.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; AWESOME.
THANK YOU AND THANK YOU TO
EVERYONE WITH COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT IN ANN ARBOR
INCLUSIVE DOING A GREAT JOB THE
COMMUNITY TELEVISION WORK
GIVING BANABA LINDA EVANS AND
OF COURSE TOMALIN THE HOST.
GREAT JOB THERE.
THANK YOU SO MUCH, RACHEL.
NEXT WE HAVE RECRUITING
ACTIVITY WITH MR. LARRY KEILLER
.
YEAH, WE HAVE ANOTHER
APPLICATION THAT DANNY SENT ME
THAT I&apos;M GOING TO REVIEW AND
PROBABLY CHASE DOWN THIS WEEK
AND SEE WHAT&apos;S GOING ON WITH
THAT.
AND I&apos;M ALSO VERY INTERESTED IN
THE THE UPCOMING POSSIBLE
VENDOR&apos;S VISIONS THING BECAUSE
I THINK WE CAN USE THAT AS A
GREAT RECRUITING ACTIVITY AND
I&apos;M LOOKING FORWARD TO SEE
WHAT&apos;S COMMISSION HAS TO SAY
ABOUT THAT AND I&apos;M ALSO WILLING
TO WORK THAT BEING A RECRUITING
PERSON SO THAT&apos;S IT, RIGHT?
&gt;&gt; WONDERFUL.
AND THANK YOU BOTH, LARRY.
AND OF COURSE COUNCILWOMAN
ELLISON FOR YOUR YOUR HELP IN
REVIEWING THOSE AND MAKING SURE
THAT WE WE ARE GETTING GOOD
APPLICATIONS AND QUALIFIED
APPLICANTS ON THE COMMISSION.
AND LARRY, I COMPLETELY AGREE.
I THINK VISIONS B BE A NICE
T FOR GETTING OUR OUR
MISSION OUT THERE AND HOPEFULLY
GETTING SOME OTHER GOOD PEOPLE
TO SIT ON THE COMMISSION AND
JOIN US.
ABSOLUTELY.
NEXT WE HAVE THE TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION UPDATE NOW OF COURSE
COMMISSIONER HALL COULD NOT
JOIN US BUT THE MINUTES ARE ON
THE AGENDA THERE AND SO THERE
ARE ANY ANY POINTS
OF INFORMATION FOR THAT.
JUST LET US KNOW.
BUT WE&apos;RE GOING TO HAVE TO MOVE
FORWARD BECAUSE HE COULD NOT
JOIN US NEXT.
WE HAVE THE YOU HAVE M COUNSEL
FOR DISABILITY CONCERNS MEETING
UPDATE WITH KATHLEEN.
&gt;&gt; HELLO EVERYONE.
I&apos;LL KEEP THIS SHORT.
WE DID MEET APRIL 12TH ON
TUESDAY AT NOON WE ASSUME AND I
BELIEVE OUR PACKAGE IT WAS FROM
MARCH I HAVE SENT THE CORRECTED
MINUTES FOR APRIL TO DENISE SO
THAT SHE CAN GET THEM OUT TO
EVERYONE.
OUR NEXT MEETING IS TUESDAY,
MAY 10TH AT NOON AT OUR MEETING
WE HAD A WE HAD A LOT OF GREAT
DISCUSSIONS ON CURRENT AND
EMERGING ISSUES THAT EXIST IN
THE DISABILITY COMMUNITY AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN FROM OUR
BRAINSTORM SESSION WE HAD
SEVERAL EMERGING TOPICS FOR
FUTURE CFTC MEETINGS INCLUDING
REVIEWING THE ADA BASELINE
TRAINING AVAILABLE TO VARIOUS
CAMPUS UNITS.
THE UNIT HARDLY CAMPUS UNITS.
WE ALSO TALKED ABOUT UPDATES ON
THE DISABILITY COMMUNITY
CENTER.
WE ALSO BRAINSTORMED UPDATES
FORMALIZED ACADEMIC PROGRAM ON
DISABILITY CULTURE AND STUDIES
AND ALSO UPDATES ON THE DIGITAL
ACCESSIBILITY POLICY AND
STANDARD PRACTICE GUIDE.
AGAIN, THAT WAS ALL
BRAINSTORMING.
THERE WERE NO DECISIONS OR
ANYTHING MADE.
WE ALSO DISCUSSED A LACK
OF FORMAL MENTORSHIP PROGRAMS
FOR DISABLED STUDENTS, FACULTY
AND STAFF AT THE UNIVERSITY.
SO THEY&apos;VE CREATED A FORUM TO
BEGIN COLLECTING A LIST
OF MENTORS FOR STUDENTS,
FACULTY AND STAFF AND IF PEOPLE
ARE INTERESTED IN BEING A
MENTOR THEY CAN FILL OUT A
MEMBERSHIP FORM WHICH WILL BE
ATTACHED TO THE MEETING MINUTES
.
YOU SHOULD BE RECEIVING YOUR
INBOX.
OTHER THAN THAT THAT&apos;S
EVERYTHING THAT I HAVE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU KATHLEEN AND THANK
YOU TO THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN COUNCIL FOR
DISABILITY CONCERNS FOR ALL THE
GREAT WORK THAT YOU&apos;RE DOING AS
WELL.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
NEXT WE HAVE THE CITY PERSONNEL
REPORT WITH POLICE COMMISSIONER
SOLOMON HAD HIS HEAD UP.
&gt;&gt; OH, I&apos;M SO SORRY.
GO AHEAD, COMMISSIONER.
&gt;&gt; SO WAS JUST A QUICK FOLLOW
UP FOR KATHLEEN WHICH WAS JUST
THE SORT OF SENSE DOES THERE
SEEM TO BE ENERGY APPETITE FOR
DISABILITY STUDIES AS A PROGRAM
OR FORMALIZED?
I KNOW THAT IT&apos;S HAD A HUGE
RESPONSE ON SOME CAMPUSES AND
I&apos;M JUST CURIOUS YOU KIND
OF GOT YOUR FINGER ON THE
PULSE.
&gt;&gt; DO YOU GET THE SENSE THAT
THERE&apos;S ENERGY THERE OR
APPETITE FOR THAT?
&gt;&gt; THERE IS DEFINITELY A LOT
OF BUZZ GOING ON RIGHT NOW WITH
REGARDS TO THAT.
I DO KNOW THAT WE WERE JUST
PLEASED TO HAVE THE I CAN&apos;T
REMEMBER HER NAME FROM THE
UNIVERSITY OF TOLEDO WAS WITH
LAST MONTH AND THEY ALREADY
HAVE A PROGRAM IN PLACE.
AND SO I DO KNOW THAT THERE IS
THERE IS A LOT OF DISCUSSION
BUT I DON&apos;T KNOW WHAT SORT
OF TRACTION IS BEING MADE ON
THAT BUT I&apos;M HOPING THAT THAT
DISCUSSION WILL CONTINUE AND
WILL ONLY GROW.
IT&apos;S DEFINITELY NEEDED AND I
THINK THAT UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN WOULD BE AN
EXCELLENT PLACE TO HAVE THAT
SORT OF INITIATIVE.
THANKS FOR THAT REPORT.
OH, PLEASE KEEP US POSTED.
&gt;&gt; SOME REALLY INTERESTING
NEWS .
ABSOLUTELY.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
ALL RIGHT.
NEXT WE HAVE THE CITY PERSONNEL
REPORT WITH THIS AFTERNOON ON
WELCOMING CITY PERSONNEL IS
SAMANTHA PUPUSA FIFTEENTH
DISTRICT COURT COURT BAILIFF
MARIA PHELPS, CUSTOMER SERVICE
ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT STACEY
FOUNTAIN BUILDING AND RENTAL
SERVICE DEVELOPMENT DEREK
HUTTON QUINCY BUILDING AND
RENTAL SERVICES DEVELOPMENT
SERVICES INSPECTOR JOHN MAGARO
ENGINEER CIVIL ENGINEERING KYLE
PETTIBONE PUBLIC WORKS ENGINEER
JOE SOBRE ENGINEER
TRANSPORTATION TECHNICIAN
RETIREMENT FAREWELL GOES TO
ELLENBROOK FIRE SERVICE
LOGISTICS OFFICER DANIEL
CAMPBELL FIRE SERVICE DRIVER
OPERATOR KIMBERLY PUBLIC WORKS
TECHNICIAN DAVID MONROE POLICE
DETECTIVE AND KELLY STARK
PUBLIC SERVICE ADMINISTRATION
ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT AND
THAT&apos;S IT.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT, THANK YOU SO MUCH
DENISE AND FOLKS, I&apos;M GOING TO
KEEP THIS BRIEF BECAUSE I KNOW
WE&apos;RE RUNNING RUNNING LONG
TODAY BUT AS FAR AS THE GAO
REPORT, THE BIGGEST THING I
WANTED TO REPORT TODAY WAS
AGAIN ABOUT OUR OFFER TO HAVE A
TABLE AND SOME REPRESENT
AMBITIONS.
TWENTY TWENTY AT THE NRA
DISTRICT LIBRARY AGAIN THAT&apos;LL
BE JUNE 8TH AND OF COURSE I&apos;M
WORKING WITH OUR VICE CHAIRMAN
MR. KEELER AS WELL AS KATIE
MONTGOMERY TO JUST FIND OUT
KIND OF WHAT WE NEED AT THAT
PARTICULAR TABLE.
AND OF COURSE I JUST WANTED TO
GAUGE FROM ALL OF YOU WHAT YOU
THINK SHOULD BE AT THAT TABLE
BECAUSE I KNOW WE HAVE IN THE
PAST WE HAVE SOME DISABILITY
RESOURCE CARDS THAT COULD
POSSIBLY BE PRINTED BUT I DON&apos;T
KNOW IF WE ACTUALLY HAVE FLIERS
ABOUT OUR COMMISSION AND WHAT
WE DO IN OUR MISSION AND THINGS
LIKE THAT.
SO MAYBE THOSE COULD BE
DEVELOPED BEFORE JUNE EIGHT.
BUT WHAT ALSO SOME OTHER
FEEDBACK ALL OF YOU AS
COMMISSIONERS MIGHT HAVE IN
TERMS OF WHAT WOULD BE
BENEFICIAL AND MOST EFFECTIVE
IN TERMS OF HAVING AN OUR TABLE
TO BE ABLE TO PROMOTE BUT ALSO
COMMUNICATE TO THE COMMUNITY
WHAT OUR MISSION IS AND THE
WORK THAT WE&apos;RE DOING.
I PLAN ON BEING THERE AS
CHAIRMAN KEELER DID SAY THAT HE
DID AS WELL BUT I JUST WANTED
TO REPORT ON THAT THAT WE GOT
AN OFFER TO HAVE A TABLE THERE
AND I THINK THAT&apos;S TREMENDOUS.
SO LEADING UP TO JUNE 8TH I&apos;M
HOPING THAT WE CAN KIND
OF FIGURE OUT THE ITEMS THAT WE
WOULD LIKE AND THEN ALSO FIGURE
OUT HOW WE CAN GET THOSE THOSE
SPECIFIC MATERIALS PRINTED AND
MADE SO THAT THOSE MATERIALS
CAN BE PRESENT AT THE TABLE
THAT WE HAVE AT THE LIBRARY
WILL OFFER TO HELP US SET UP
THE TABLE AS WELL.
AND SO THEY&apos;VE BEEN VERY
ACCOMMODATING ABOUT THAT LARRY.
YOU HAD YOUR HAND RAISED.
YEAH.
THAT THAT THAT WAS PART OF MY
QUESTION IS TO GET FLIERS WHO
WOULD PAY FOR THE FLIERS OR HOW
WOULD WE GET THEM PRINTED AND
THE SECOND QUESTION IS AND
MAYBE THIS IS FOR KATIE OR THE
GST IT MIGHT BE GOOD TO GET
MAYBE TWENTY COPIES OR SO OF A
BRAILLE FLIER BUT THIS IS
VISIONS AND IT&apos;S A LOT OF THE
TECHNOLOGY IS GEARED TOWARD
VISUALLY IMPAIRED PEOPLE
PROBABLY HAVE A FEW THERE.
&gt;&gt; I DON&apos;T KNOW HOW MANY FOR
THE COMMUNITY BUT IT WOULD BE
NICE TO MAYBE HAVE TWENTY
BRAILLE COPIES OF AT LEAST TO
THINK ABOUT IT.
&gt;&gt; OK, SO WE WANT A BRAILLE
FLIER AS WELL AS REGULAR FLIERS
FOR THE COMMISSION.
ABSOLUTELY.
&gt;&gt; I AGREE THAT WOULD BE NICE.
YEAH I THINK SO.
OK AND THEN I DO HAVE A DRAFT
SOMEWHERE IN MY EMAIL OF THE
DISABILITY RESOURCE CARDS WITH
THOSE AS WELL.
I THINK THOSE WOULD BE HELPFUL
TO THE COMMUNITY TO HAVE ON THE
TABLE AS WELL.
BUT I WOULD LIKE TO I WOULD
LIKE TO ENCOURAGE ALL OF YOU
THAT IF YOU HAVE SOME IDEAS AND
OR OPTIONS WHAT ELSE WE COULD
HAVE ON THE TABLE, PLEASE FEEL
FREE TO REACH OUT TO MYSELF AND
OR DENISE AND THEN YEAH I&apos;D
LOVE TO DISCUSS WITH YOU, LARRY
IN THE COMMISSION ALSO HOW WE
CAN GET THOSE PARTICULAR
MATERIALS PAID FOR AND SORT
OF THE PROCESSES AND GOING
FORWARD WITH THAT AND KIND
OF WHO WHO WOULD BE BEST TO
APPROACH ABOUT THAT.
&gt;&gt; SO WE DO A NEW A NEW NEW
BUSINESS.
SHOULD WE VOTE ON WHETHER WE
WANT TO BE PART OF IT ON THE
NEW BUSINESS OR.
YEAH, THAT&apos;S A GOOD QUESTION.
YEAH, I THINK I THINK WE SHOULD
VOTE UNDER IT UNDER NEW
BUSINESS.
LARRY.
SO I MEAN I GUESS THE QUESTION
IS IS THERE ANYONE OPPOSED TO
BEING A PART OF THIS?
FIRST OF ALL AND THEN YOU KNOW,
IF YOU ARE I&apos;D LIKE TO HEAR
YOUR YOUR BRIEF THOUGHTS.
BUT YOU KNOW, IF WE ARE IN
FAVOR OF BEING A PART
OF VISIONS AND HAVING A TABLE
ON JUNE 8TH AT THE ANN ARBOR
DISTRICT LIBRARY, IS THERE A
SORT OF EMOTION TO APPROVE THAT
I&apos;LL MOVE TO APPROVE THAT WE&apos;D
BE PART OF IT.
OK, I&apos;M ALL IN FAVOR OF BEING A
PART OF THE VISIONS EVENT ON
JUNE 8TH AND HAVING A TABLE IF
YOU DON&apos;T MIND JUST UNMUTED AND
RAISING YOUR HAND AND SAY I I I
I SULLIVAN HAS AN UPSIDE FOR MY
RHYTHM.
YES.
THANK COMMISSIONER.
&gt;&gt; SO JUST TO SAY I THOUGHT
THAT WAS TO SAY AND
COMMISSIONER BARTON YOU HAD
YOUR HAND UP IS THAT IS THAT A
VOTE FOR RESPONDING OK OK
THAT&apos;S ALL RIGHT.
WELL THANK YOU.
THANK YOU ALL.
I APPRECIATE THAT AND I THINK
THAT YOU KNOW, I&apos;LL DO MY BEST
TO MAKE SURE THAT WE HAVE
EVERYTHING THAT WE NEED THERE
AND I LOOK FORWARD TO SEEING
YOU THERE AS WELL AND I&apos;LL BE
THERE.
&gt;&gt; ABSOLUTELY.
SO I THINK THAT&apos;S GOING TO BE
VERY FUN.
A GOOD DAY.
AWESOME.
WELL, I&apos;LL BE I&apos;LL BE IN TOUCH
WITH ALL OF YOU GUYS IS SORT
OF THE PLANNING PHASES ARE
GOING ON JUST SO EVERYBODY CAN
BE LIKE IN A LOOP.
I&apos;M NOT TRYING TO OVERLOAD YOUR
INBOXES BUT JUST WANT TO KEEP
EVERYONE INFORMED.
&gt;&gt; RACHEL, YOU HAD YOUR HAND
RAISED.
YES, I JUST HAD A QUESTION.
THEY SAID WHAT WHAT WERE THE
HOURS GOING TO BE FOR THIS?
YOU KNOW?
SO I KNOW AND IN CASE YOU KNOW,
I DON&apos;T I&apos;M IT&apos;S A WEDNESDAY SO
I&apos;D BE WORKING BUT IF IT&apos;S
LATER THAT EVENING I COULD
DEFINITELY COME BY AS WELL.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S EITHER TEND TO THREE OR
TO FOR TEN TO THREE OR TEN TO
FORCE AROUND THAT I BELIEVE I
HAVE TO LOOK AT THE FLIER UP
EXACTLY.
YEAH.
THANKS LARRY.
YEAH I BELIEVE IT&apos;S TEN TO FOUR
BUT I WILL DOUBLE CHECK WITH
YOU GUYS ON THAT AND I WILL
SEND ALL OF YOU THAT
INFORMATION JUST LIKE THE DATE
AND TIMES AND OF COURSE THE
LOCATION BECAUSE WE WANT TO BE
ABLE TO SEE ANY OF YOU THAT CAN
MAKE IT SO ABSOLUTELY IT IS AT
THE DOWNTOWN LIBRARY THREE
FORTY FIFTY CELSIUS ABSOLUTELY
AWESOME.
BUT THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S REALLY THE
BIGGEST THING THAT I HAVE FOR
THE CHAIR REPORT AT THIS TIME
MOVING ON UNDER OLD BUSINESS.
I MEAN YOU YOU KNOW, I WANTED
TO JUST AGAIN REITERATE HOW I
THOUGHT HOW IMPORTANT IT IS
THAT WE HAD BEYOND TO DESCRIBE
YOU KNOW, HIS LEGISLATION AND
WHAT HE WAS WORKING FOR AND
OF COURSE I WANT TO THANK
COUNCILWOMAN NELSON AS WELL FOR
MAKING THAT PARAMOUNT ON ON OUR
FOREFRONT OF THOUGHTS SO THAT
WE COULD EVEN KNOW ABOUT THAT
AND WHAT WE WERE DOING.
AND YOU KNOW, I WANTED TO FROM
ALL OF YOU YOU KNOW WHAT
SOMETHING THAT WE COULD DO TO
SUPPORT THEM.
I KNOW WE TALKED ABOUT HEY,
DRAFT A LETTER AND SEND IT TO
OTHER MEMBERS AND OTHER
LEGISLATORS, YOU KNOW, FROM
WHERE YOU ARE IN DIFFERENT
THINGS.
BUT YOU KNOW DO YOU KNOW
COUNCILWOMAN NELSON?
IS IT IS IT MORE OF HER?
COULD WE JUST WRITE A LETTER
OF SUPPORT SUPPORTING HIM?
WHAT&apos;S THE BEST SORT OF NEXT
STEPS IN TERMS OF SUPPORTING
REP. BOBBY AND THIS AS WELL?
&gt;&gt; WELL NOTED I I HAVE A
QUESTION.
DID I TALK TO YOU EARLIER TODAY
AND ASKED HIM ABOUT THE
RESOLUTION THAT WAS GOING TO BE
PASSED THE COUNTY COMMISSION
ABOUT THIS AND I ASKED HIM TO
SHARE IT WITH YOU.
ZACH, DID HE WAS HE ABLE TO OK
BECAUSE WE COULD PASS SOMETHING
I MEAN WE WE ALMOST DID AT A
COUNCIL BEFORE BEFORE WE
UNDERSTOOD THIS COMPLETELY.
WE COULD WE COULD WE COULD AT
THIS BODY I MEAN WE DID BEFORE
RIGHT.
APPROVING THIS GO TO COUNCIL
AND NOW THE TIMELINE IS BETTER
BECAUSE THE MEETING ISN&apos;T NEXT
WEEK.
THE MEETING IS THE FOLLOWING
WEEK SO I COULD EASILY GET THIS
ON THE NEXT AGENDA THAT WE FOR
THAT COUNCIL WOULD ASSERT THE
SAME SUPPORT AS COUNTY
COMMISSIONER WOULD HAVE.
AND I ACTUALLY JUST HEARD
EARLIER THIS AFTERNOON THAT THE
COUNTY COMMISSION MEETING IS
CANCELED TONIGHT.
SO CANDY BARS RESOLUTION IS
ACTUALLY NOT GOING TO BE ON
THEIR AGENDA BECAUSE OUR
MEETING ISN&apos;T HAPPENING.
THIS COULD GO TO COUNCIL.
WE COULD WE COULD VOTE AND
EXERCISE OUR SUPPORT OR EXPRESS
OUR SUPPORT LIKE WE TRIED TO DO
BEFORE SO WE COULD DO THAT
EASILY.
&gt;&gt; I MEAN, YOU KNOW AND I WANT
TO I WANT TO EXERCISE THE
OPINION OF THE FULL COMMISSION
ON THIS BUT I WOULD LIKE TO
VOTE ON ON THIS ACTION TODAY IF
WE COULD.
BUT COMMISSIONER KEELER, YOU
HAVE YOUR HANDS RAISED SO GO GO
AHEAD.
&gt;&gt; OH, MY QUESTION WAS DID WE
VOTE ON THIS ALREADY OR ARE ARE
WE VOTING BECAUSE IF WE&apos;RE
VOTING ON THIS YES.
&gt;&gt; LARRY, WHAT HAPPENED WAS WE
VOTED ON IT.
WE VOTED ON A DIFFERENT VERSION
OF IT.
YEAH.
AND NOW AND WHEN WE VOTED ON IT
BEFORE IT WAS IN THEORY WE WERE
EXPRESSING OPPOSITION TO THE
SORT OF THE BAD EFFECTS OF THE
TWENTY NINETEEN TWENTY EIGHTEEN
WELL THE AMENDMENTS AND AND NOW
THERE&apos;S A SPECIFIC BILL THAT
REPRESENTATIVE ROBBY IS
FORWARD.
SO NOW WE CAN SPECIFICALLY
SUPPORT HIS BILL BECAUSE IT
EXISTS.
&gt;&gt; SO THAT&apos;S THE DIFFERENCE.
IT&apos;S THE SAME IDEA.
SAME IDEA.
IT&apos;S A SO SO HOPEFULLY
COMMITTEE AND I WANT TO BE
COMPLETELY TRANSPARENT AND AND
FORTHCOMING.
I MEAN ALL OF YOU HAVE HAD AN
OPPORTUNITY TO HEAR BRABY IN
HIS CASE FOR SUPPORTING THIS.
SO I WANT TO GIVE ALL OF YOU
JUST AN OPPORTUNITY AND THEN IS
THERE A MOTION TO SUPPORT THIS
AND BRING IT TOWARDS COUNCIL
BECAUSE I BELIEVE THAT THIS IS
VERY, VERY IMPORTANT AND YOU
KNOW, OBVIOUSLY THERE ARE EVEN
RESIDENTS WHO HAVE BEEN
DISTRESSED BECAUSE OF THIS AND
SO I THINK, YOU KNOW, FOR US TO
SHOW OUR SUPPORT TO CITY
COUNCIL ON THIS PARTICULAR
ISSUE IS IMPORTANT SO IT KNOW
IF THERE ISN&apos;T ANY OPPOSITION.
&gt;&gt; WE HAVE A QUESTION.
COMMISSIONER MOSADDEQ.
&gt;&gt; OH, ACTUALLY YOU ARE ASKING
IF THERE IS A MOTION AND I WAS
JUST GOING TO SAY I WOULD LIKE
TO START THE MOTION TO WHAT YOU
JUST SAID.
&gt;&gt; SURE.
NO, NO PROBLEM.
SORRY.
I TEND TO USE TOO MANY WORDS.
SO IS THERE A MOTION TO BRING
THIS TO CITY COUNCIL, KATHLEEN?
THERE IS A MOTION SO IS THERE A
SECOND
OK, ALEX ALEX GOSSAGE,
COULD YOU UNMUTED AND JUST SAY
THAT YOU SECOND YOU ARE MUTED.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S OK.
SORRY I THOUGHT I DID I SECOND
THANK YOU.
OK FOLKS IF IF WE ARE ALL GOOD
WITH THIS BECAUSE I JUST WANT
TO MAKE SURE THAT WE&apos;RE ALL IN
AGREEMENT AND THAT WE ARE GOOD
ON THIS SO ALL IN FAVOR IF YOU
COULD JUST UNMUTED ALL IN FAVOR
OF BRINGING THIS TO CITY
COUNCIL PLEASE UNMUTED RAISE
YOUR HAND AND SAY I SO I I I&apos;M
ALL RIGHT.
WONDERFUL.
WELL THANK YOU VERY MUCH
OF COURSE AGAIN ALTHOUGH I HAVE
SAYING I BETTER BE ON THE
RECORD THAT I HAVE STAYED YOU
DON&apos;T DIDN&apos;T CALL FOR THAT SO
WHAT&apos;S THAT LARRY I SAID I
ABSTAIN OK I WANTED THAT ON THE
RECORD THAT I ABSTAINED IF YOU
IF THE VOTE PASSED THAT&apos;S FINE
BUT I WANTED THAT RECORD THAT I
ABSTAINED.
&gt;&gt; OK, DO IS THERE A REASON
YOU&apos;RE ABSTAIN.
DON&apos;T HAVE TO GIVE ONE.
I DON&apos;T BUT I DON&apos;T I KNOW
THERE&apos;S A LOT OF OTHER ISSUES
GOING ON WITH IT TOO SO I HAVE
TO DO MORE RESEARCH TO ABSTAIN
BUT I JUST WANT TO RECORD THAT
I SAID IT WASN&apos;T A UNANIMOUS
VOTE.
&gt;&gt; WELL I APPRECIATE YOU
POINTING OUT OUT AND I
APPRECIATE YOU EXERCISING THE
POLITICAL PROCESS.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH,
COUNCILWOMAN NELSON FOR YOUR
SUPPORT ON THIS.
PLEASE KEEP US POSTED IN THIS
PROCESS AND HOW IT GOES FORWARD
.
ALL RIGHT.
EXCUSE ME, DAMON.
&gt;&gt; YES, WHEN WE VOTED ON
VISIONS I HAVE THE MOTION
PASSED BY COMMISSIONER KEELER.
&gt;&gt; I DIDN&apos;T HEAR A SECOND WHO&apos;S
SECOND PLEASE?
YEAH, THAT WAS COMMISSIONER
GOSSAGE.
OK, THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
AND THEN ONE FINAL ONE FINAL
POINT HERE.
I WANTED TO JUST MAKE THE
COMMISSION AWARE AND HOPEFULLY
ALL OF YOU APPROVE OF THIS BUT
I MADE I WAS GIVEN AN
OPPORTUNITY WITH IN WORKING
WITH DETROIT DISABILITY POWER
.
THEY WERE ACTUALLY SENDING A
LETTER IN SUPPORT OF THE COVID
PLAN GOING FORWARD TO BASICALLY
GET MAKE SURE THAT PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES HAD GOOD ACCESS TO
VACCINES GOING FORWARD, MAKE
SURE THAT THEY HAD ACCESS TO,
YOU KNOW, CONTINUED SUPPORT
OF THE PANDEMIC AS DIFFERENT
VARIANTS ARE UNFORTUNATELY
BECOMING PREVALENT AND WE WERE
THE COMMISSION WAS APPROACHED
IN A VERY TIGHT TIMELINE TO
SORT OF BE A PART OF THIS
LETTER THAT WAS BEING SENT TO
THE GOVERNOR AND OTHER HIGHER
UPS IN TERMS OF JUST MAKING
SURE THAT THE DISABILITY
POPULATION WAS INFORMED AND
MAKING SURE THAT WE HAD ACCESS
TO ADEQUATE VACCINES AND
BOOSTERS GOING FORWARD YOU ARE
MORE THAN WELCOME TO REVIEW
THIS LETTER FOR REVIEW.
BUT I WANTED IT TO BE ON RECORD
THAT WE ARE ASKED TO DO THIS
AND I FELT AS A COMMISSIONER
MYSELF THAT THIS WAS SOMETHING
THAT WAS VERY IMPORTANT.
I THINK THAT BOOSTERS AND
VACCINES ARE ESSENTIAL TO OUR
HEALTH AND OUR SAFETY AND I
THINK THAT, YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S
TOUGH WHEN YOU&apos;RE FACED THE
VERY SHORT TIMELINE OF THINGS
TO BE ABLE TO TO KIND OF GET,
YOU KNOW, A GENERAL OPINION.
BUT I DID MY BEST TO LOOK AT
THIS LEGISLATION BUT ALSO LOOK
AT WHAT THEY WERE SENDING IN
TERMS OF THE LETTER AND JUDGE
WHETHER I THOUGHT IT WAS
SOMETHING THAT THE COMMISSION
COULD GET BEHIND AND I JUST
WANTED ALL OF YOU TO BE AWARE
THAT WE DID SIGN ON IN SUPPORT
OF THIS BECAUSE THEY WERE
ASKING OUR SUPPORT IN A VERY
SHORT AMOUNT OF TIME AND
BECAUSE IT INVOLVED INDIVIDUALS
AND GETTING BOOSTER&apos;S AND
MAKING SURE THAT THESE THAT
PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES HAD
ACCESS TO BOOSTERS AND VACCINES
GOING FORWARD TO MAKING SURE
THAT OUR POPULATION WAS NOT
LEFT BEHIND KNOW I FELT THAT
THAT WAS ESSENTIAL.
BUT I DO HAVE THAT FOR REVIEW
FOR ALL OF YOU TO REVIEW.
SO IF THERE IS ANY DISPUTE OR
IF THERE ARE ANY OBJECTIONS,
PLEASE FEEL FREE TO MENTION.
BUT I JUST WANTED TO MAKE IT
AWARE BECAUSE AGAIN I WAS NOT
GIVEN MUCH OF A TIMELINE FOR
THAT.
IT WAS BASICALLY LIKE I HAD TO
THEY SENT IT OUT AND THEN I HAD
TO HAD TO RESPOND.
SO I APPRECIATE ALL OF YOU
BEING UNDERSTANDING AND I&apos;M
DOING MY BEST TO ALWAYS KEEP
YOU INFORMED AS BEST I CAN IN
TERMS OF WHEN THESE THINGS ARE
COMING FORWARD.
BUT FOR SOME REASON SOMETIMES
WHEN I AM APPROACHED WITH THESE
IT&apos;S JUST A VERY SHORT TIME
WINDOW IN WHICH THEY WANT US TO
RESPOND AND THEN SENDING IT TO
THE COMMISSION TO GET LIKE A
YES OR FULL RESPONSE OR B BEING
ABLE TO PRESENT IT FULLY TO ALL
OF YOU HERE MEETINGS JUST TAKES
A GOOD AMOUNT OF TIME AND I&apos;M
TRYING TO FIGURE OUT WHEN I AM
PRESENTED WITH THESE LAST
MINUTE MOVES, IF YOU WILL, AT
THESE LAST MINUTE DECISIONS.
I&apos;M TRYING TO FIGURE OUT TO ALL
OF YOU WHAT THE BEST METHOD IS
TO BEING ABLE TO GET TO KEEP
ALL OF YOU INFORMED BUT THEN
ALSO GET AN INFORMED DECISION
SO THAT I CAN MOVE FORWARD SO
GO AHEAD, MATTHEW.
YOU HAVE A QUESTION?
YEAH, IT&apos;S MORE OF A QUESTION.
CAN&apos;T YOU JUST SIMPLY SAY TO
THEM THIS IS THE BASIS UPON
WHICH THESE MEETINGS ARE
SCHEDULED.
THIS MUST BE PUT ON THE AGENDA
PROPOSED AS AN ITEM OF BUSINESS
SUBJECT TO A VOTE.
SO NO, I CANNOT TURN THIS
AROUND IN THREE DAYS OR SEVEN
DAYS OR FOURTEEN DAYS WHATEVER
THEY&apos;RE ASKING, WHY CAN&apos;T YOU
SIMPLY RESPOND IN THAT WAY AND
THEN WE CAN FOLLOW DUE PROCESS
JUST LIKE EVERY OTHER ISSUE IN
THIS COMMISSION?
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S A GREAT QUESTION.
I CAN DEFINITELY HIGHLY
CONSIDER THAT BUT TYPICALLY
FROM MY EXPERIENCE JUST AS
OF LATE IT&apos;S IT&apos;S JUST BEEN
REALLY DIFFICULT IF I WERE TO
SAY HEY, YOU KNOW, I NEED MORE
TIME TO DECIDE, THEY WOULD THEY
WOULD ALREADY SEND IT OUT AND
WE WOULDN&apos;T HAVE TIME TO BE A
PART OF IT.
SO IT&apos;S JUST A IT&apos;S JUST A
TOUGH TIME TIME WINDOW.
BUT I JUST WANT ALL OF YOU TO
KNOW THAT I&apos;M DOING MY BEST TO
MAKE SURE THAT WE&apos;RE ALL
INFORMED THAT I&apos;M DOING MY BEST
TO MAKE SURE THAT WE&apos;RE ALSO
CONTINUING TO DO THINGS
TOGETHER AS A COMMISSION.
BUT MATTHEW, I WILL TAKE INTO
CONSIDERATION WHAT YOU&apos;VE SAID
BECAUSE YOUR FEEDBACK IS ALWAYS
VERY IMPORTANT AND I&apos;M HOPING
THAT IN THE FUTURE I CAN I CAN
HAVE THE ABILITY TO DO THAT.
&gt;&gt; SO THANK YOU.
SO I JUST I WANT TO REFRAME
IT&apos;S MORE THAT WE ARE NOT AN
AFTERTHOUGHT.
WE ARE NOT SOMETHING THAT
SHOULD BE AT THE ELEVENTH HOUR
REALLY AS AN AFTERTHOUGHT WE
NEED TO BE PART OF THIS PROCESS
.
IT&apos;S PART OF WHAT SOME OF US ON
THE COMMITTEE HAVE ADVOCATED
FOR A STRONGER MEDIA
COORDINATOR WITHIN THE CITY IF
WE CONTINUE TO OPERATE ON THIS
BASIS OF JUMPING WHENEVER
SOMEBODY SAYS JUMP WE ARE NEVER
GOING TO GET A FULL SEAT AT
THIS TABLE AND I JUST THINK WE
OUGHT TO JUST SAY NO, THAT&apos;S MY
FEELING IT&apos;S ONLY ONE PERSON.
BUT I THINK THIS IS PART OF A
SYSTEMATIC DISRESPECT THAT THE
COMMISSION IS TREATED WITH AND
IT&apos;S NOT ACCEPTABLE AND IT&apos;S
UNFORTUNATELY PART AND PARCEL
OF THE AFTER WHICH IS THE
DISABILITY COMMUNITY IN ANN
ARBOR AND I DON&apos;T THINK WE CAN
PROP UP THIS GLORIOUS PICTURE
THAT ANN ARBOR LIKES TO PORTRAY
OF AN INCLUSIVE COMMUNITY WHEN
WE ARE EXPECTED AT THE LAST
MINUTE TO SIGN OFF ON THESE
THINGS WITHOUT ANY KIND
OF CONSIDERATION DISCUSSION
VOTE IS JUST NOT FAIR AND IT&apos;S
I DON&apos;T I WOULD BE SURPRISED TO
KNOW IF OTHER ENTITIES IN THE
CITY ARE TREATED THIS WAY.
WELL, YOU BRING UP A VERY FAIR
POINT, MATTHEW, AND THANK FOR
THAT FEEDBACK.
I CAN TELL YOU THAT I WILL TAKE
IT INTO CONSIDERATION WHAT
YOU&apos;VE HAD TO SAY BECAUSE AGAIN
OF ALL THE FEEDBACK THAT YOU
GIVE IS VALID.
SO I DEFINITELY APPRECIATE THAT
AND THANK YOU.
I WILL TAKE THAT IN
CONSIDERATION.
I KNOW WE&apos;VE GOT SOME HUNDREDS
RAISE FOLKS BUT WE ARE RUNNING
TIGHT ON TIME SO IF WE CAN KEEP
THE COMMENTS JUST TO A MINIMUM
ON THIS POINT THAT WOULD BE
GREAT.
AND THEN IF THERE ARE
ADDITIONAL COMMENTS, PLEASE
FEEL FREE TO SHOOT AN EMAIL TO
DENISE OR MYSELF.
BUT DENISE, IF YOU JUST WANT TO
CALL ON THE COMMISSIONERS THAT
HAVE RAISED THEIR HANDS AND
THEY CAN MAKE COMMENT, COUNCIL
MEMBER NELSON I WANT TO
PIGGYBACK ON MATTHEW&apos;S POINT
AND IT&apos;S A LITTLE SLIGHTLY
DIFFERENT ONE I WAS I WAS
CURIOUS AND I&apos;M INTERESTED IN
GETTING THIS ANSWERED IN THIS
MEETING.
I COULD HAVE ASKED YOU AFTER
THE MEETING I GUESS I WAS
CURIOUS HOW THE PRESENTATION
GOT ON OUR AGENDA BECAUSE IT
CAUGHT ME BY SURPRISE AND IN
FEELING LIKE IT WAS A LITTLE
BIT OUTSIDE THE SCOPE OF THE
TOPIC OF THIS COMMISSION.
I&apos;M NOT I I&apos;M MOST OF MY
APPOINTMENTS AND CITY COUNCIL
OR UNCONVENTIONAL ONES.
WE WOULD NEVER HAVE AN SIU
PRESENTATION AT THE ZONING
BOARD OF APPEALS BECAUSE WE
SIMPLY DON&apos;T HAVE PRESENTATIONS
AT THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
AND THERE ARE A COUPLE OF OTHER
ONES WHERE THAT WOULDN&apos;T
HAPPEN.
BUT I WAS JUST CURIOUS HOW THAT
HOW THAT CAME ABOUT.
ARE THOSE PRESENTATIONS
HAPPENING AT ALL THE BOARDS AND
COMMISSIONS JUST ALL OF THEM OR
I WAS JUST CURIOUS WELL, SO
THERE&apos;S THERE&apos;S A COUPLE
OF THINGS.
I MEAN I THINK YOU KNOW, I&apos;M
APPROACHED WITH HATE.
I THINK THAT THIS WOULD BE
BENEFICIAL TO THE COMMISSION IN
TERMS OF INFORMATION OR BEING
INFORMATIVE AND I THINK IT&apos;S
BENEFICIAL IN TERMS
OF TECHNOLOGY OR ASSISTED.
YOU KNOW, THINGS ARE JUST GOOD
TO BE IN THE KNOW BUT THEN ALSO
YES, THERE ARE SOME
PRESENTATIONS I THINK THAT ARE
ACROSS THE BOARD IS PARTICULAR
ONE YOU KNOW, I CAN&apos;T
NECESSARILY REMEMBER WHETHER IT
WAS SOMETHING THAT I WAS
SPECIFIC APPROACHED WITH BUT I
THINK I THINK SUSTAINABLE IS
IMPORTANT TO EVERYONE AND I
THINK IT&apos;S ALSO IMPORTANT IN
THE DISABILITY COMMUNITY AS
WELL BECAUSE WE WE LIVE AND
WORK AND YOU KNOW, WHETHER IT&apos;S
OUR TECHNOLOGY THAT WE USE
THAT&apos;S SUSTAINABLE, SUSTAINABLE
OR WHETHER IT&apos;S IT&apos;S HOUSLEY,
YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S JUST NICE TO BE
INFORMED SO SO THE QUESTION IS
THERE&apos;S A LITTLE BIT OF BOTH
BUT YOU KNOW, I THINK WITH THIS
I THOUGHT THAT IT WAS
INFORMATIVE JUST BECAUSE YOU
KNOW, IT&apos;S NICE TO SEE THAT THE
CITY IS DOING IN TERMS OF SOLAR
TECHNOLOGY AND I THINK, YOU
KNOW, JUST BECAUSE WHERE THE
COMMISSION ON DISABILITY ISSUES
IT DOESN&apos;T MEAN WE DON&apos;T WANT
TO BE INFORMED.
SO I HOPE THAT ANSWERS YOUR
QUESTION BUT IT&apos;S KIND OF A
MIXTURE OF BOTH
COMMISSIONER
HAWKINS, I JUST WANT TO GO BACK
TO SOME OF MATTHEW&apos;S QUESTIONS
AS WELL.
&gt;&gt; SO BECAUSE IT NEEDS TO BE
DONE IN A PUBLIC MEETING, IS
THERE ANY WAY THAT WE COULD
COMMUNICATE BY EMAIL WHEN THESE
FOUR TIME SENSITIVE THINGS COME
UP TO HAVE LIKE AN UNOFFICIAL
VOTE FOR PEOPLE?
YOU KNOW, IF THERE ARE
DOCUMENTS FOR US TO REVIEW, WE
CAN REVIEW THEM BY EMAIL AND
RESPOND WHETHER OR NOT WE&apos;RE IN
AGREEMENT WITH IT.
I KNOW THAT&apos;S NOT WITHIN PUBLIC
MEETINGS BUT I DIDN&apos;T KNOW IF
THERE WAS A WAY WE COULD DO
SOMETHING FOR THE TIME
SENSITIVE ISSUES LIKE THAT.
&gt;&gt; BUT I DO AGREE WITH
COMMISSIONER SOLOMON AS WELL
THAT IT DOESN&apos;T REALLY SOLVE
THE ISSUE OF KIND OF BEING AN
AFTERTHOUGHT IN TERMS
OF WANTING APPROVAL WITHOUT
INPUT.
&gt;&gt; WELL, NO AND I THANK YOU,
RACHEL.
I AGREE WITH YOU.
I MEAN I DEFINITELY THINK, YOU
KNOW, THAT&apos;S BEEN ATTEMPTED IN
THE PAST WITH THE COMMISSION TO
DO AN EMAIL CONSENSUS AND GET
FEEDBACK
FROM MY EXPERIENCE
THAT JUST WASN&apos;T TIMELY, YOU
KNOW, IN THE PAST I MEAN WE CAN
TRY IT AGAIN BUT FROM MY
EXPERIENCE IT JUST WAS NOT
TIMELY IN TERMS OF THE RESPONSE
SORT OF ATTEMPTING TO INFORM
EVERYONE THROUGH EMAIL AND THEN
GETTING A RESPONSE SO I CAN
DEFINITELY MAKE AN EFFORT TO
GET TO DO THAT AND SEE HOW
THAT&apos;LL WORK.
BUT AGAIN, I&apos;LL DO MY BEST.
&gt;&gt; I I DON&apos;T BELIEVE THAT&apos;S AT
LEAST IN THE TIME THAT I&apos;VE
BEEN ON COMMISSION.
&gt;&gt; I DON&apos;T BELIEVE THAT&apos;S BEEN
DONE.
SO IT&apos;S PROBABLY BEEN ABOUT
THREE OR FOUR YEARS.
&gt;&gt; SO I JUST I FIGURED I WOULD
ASK BECAUSE IT&apos;S NOT SOMETHING
I HAD DONE IN THE TIME I&apos;VE
BEEN HERE.
OK, ALEX, DO YOU HAVE A
QUESTION?
YEAH, I THINK I JUST I&apos;LL JUST
ECHO AND AGREE WITH RACHEL AND
MATTHEW BUT LARGELY I THINK
THERE AREN&apos;T GOING TO BE THESE
ISSUES WHEN THEY DO COME UP
FAST AND I RECOGNIZE THEY COME
UP FAST.
I MEAN MY NAME IS ON THERE AS A
SIGNATORY FROM ACIL.
&gt;&gt; I DON&apos;T THINK IT HURTS THESE
INITIATIVES OF THE COMMISSION.
IT&apos;S NOT GOING TO BE ABLE TO BE
PART OF THEM.
IN FACT, I THINK THE ONLY WAY
IT&apos;S GOING TO THAT&apos;S GOING TO
LEND SOME CREDENCE TO THE TO
THE COMMISSION ITSELF AND THEN
THE CAUSES THAT WE&apos;RE
SUPPORTING IS WHEN THE WHOLE
COMMISSION IS ABLE TO TO HEAR
ABOUT THESE THINGS IN A FORUM
IN WAS ABLE TO ALSO HAVE THESE
FORUMS OPEN TO MEMBERS OF THE
COMMUNITY.
SO I THINK I RECOGNIZE THAT A
LOT OF THIS STUFF, A LOT
OF ADVOCACY STUFF HAS VERY
SHORT TIMELINES.
THEY&apos;RE NOT EASY TO TURN AROUND
AND HONESTLY I DON&apos;T THINK IT
HURTS TO JUST SAY I&apos;M SORRY WE
CAN&apos;T DO THAT.
AH, I&apos;M SORRY.
WE&apos;RE GOING TO HAVE TO DO IT
THIS THIS WAY.
THIS IS OUR PROCESS.
SO JUST SOMETHING FOR US TO ALL
THINK ABOUT IN THE FUTURE.
I REALLY DON&apos;T THINK WE NEED TO
RUSH OTHER PEOPLE&apos;S, YOU KNOW,
REASONS TO HURRY OR NOT OURS
AND WE NEED TO MAKE SURE THAT
WE&apos;RE DOING WHAT&apos;S BEST FOR THE
COMMISSION IN TERMS
OF REPRESENTING FOLKS WITH
DISABILITIES HERE IN ANN ARBOR.
AND I THINK THE ONLY WAY TO DO
THAT IS TO DELIBERATE.
ABSOLUTELY.
I COMPLETELY AGREE.
I WILL SAY AND IN THAT PROCESS
IT MAKES IT MAKES I THINK THE
OUTPUT OF OF WHAT WE DO ALL
THAT MORE IMPORTANT BECAUSE
IT&apos;S YEAH IT&apos;S IMPORTANT BUT
IT&apos;S ALSO IMPORTANT I AGREE
WITH YOU TO RESPECT THAT
PROCESS.
SO THANK YOU ALEX.
OTHER THAN THAT FOLKS KEILLER
I&apos;M SORRY I HAD TO END UP AS
WELL.
&gt;&gt; OK, THANK THANK TO HAVE ONE.
I THINK THAT ALSO NOT SO MUCH
WE&apos;RE HERE CONCERNED THAT THE
I&apos;M SORRY I CAN&apos;T HEAR YOU IF
THEY WANT US TO OK OR SOMETHING
THE OTHER THESE OTHER GROUPS
THEY SHOULD GIVE IT TO US IN A
TIMELY FASHION AND KNOW THAT
IT&apos;S SUPPOSED TO WORK IN A
CERTAIN WAY.
YOU KNOW YOU&apos;RE GOING TO HAVE
TO RUN IT THROUGH INSTEAD
OF MAKE A SNAP DECISION AND I
AGREE YOU&apos;RE DOING WHAT YOU
WANT.
YOU CAN BUT I THINK I THINK
IT&apos;S THE GROUP&apos;S GOT TO RESPECT
TO BOTH AND WANT US TO SUPPORT
THEM.
THEY GOTTA RESPECT US AND KNOW
THAT WE HAVE A PROCEDURE THAT
HAS TO HAPPEN.
AND SECOND, I AGREE WITH
CASSELMAN NELSON.
I COULDN&apos;T FIGURE OUT WHERE
PRESENTATION FROM THE INFECTED
WITH DISABILITY AND IN A IN A
FASHION IT COULDN&apos;T HAVE BEEN
ADDRESSED OR LOOKED AT IN
ANOTHER MEETING AND I KIND
OF FIGURED IT TOOK TWENTY FIVE
MINUTES OF OUR TIME THAT WE GOT
TO SPEND SPEND LOOKING AT
ACTUAL ISSUES THAT HAD TO DO
WITH DISABILITY INSTEAD OF JUST
GENERAL WE COULD HAVE CAUGHT
THAT ON ANOTHER MEETING.
WELL I&apos;LL KEEP THAT IN MIND AS
I&apos;M APPROACHED WITH DIFFERENT
PRESENTATIONS PEOPLE WANTING TO
PRESENT TO US IN TERMS
OF KEEPING US INFORMED, I THINK
IT&apos;S IMPORTANT TO BE WELL
ROUNDED AS A COMMISSION RATHER
THAN JUST BE TUNNEL VISIONED ON
JUST DISABILITY AS A WHOLE
BECAUSE WE ARE DALTS AND
INDIVIDUALS THAT DO ALSO LIVE
IN THE COMMUNITY BUT I
COMPLETELY AGREE.
YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S IMPORTANT TO,
YOU KNOW, UNDERSTAND WHETHER
THOSE PRESENTATIONS ARE
INFORMATIVE OR NOT.
&gt;&gt; SO THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M SURE DAYMON AROUND BEING
FORMAL OR NOT, IT&apos;S THE FACT
THAT WE ACTUALLY DEAL WITH AND
NOT DIRECTLY WITH OUR CONCERNS
.
I MEAN WE&apos;RE CONCERNED ABOUT
ANYTHING WE WANT TO KNOW HOW
WALK FOR EXAMPLE, WE DIDN&apos;T
PLAN FOR PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES, FOR EXAMPLE TO
RECEIVE SOME OF THESE RIGHT
NOW.
I AGREE AND AGAIN, I&apos;LL DO A
BETTER JOB OF GETTING THOSE
REQUESTS TO MAKE SURE THAT OUR
TIME IS BETTER UTILIZED TO
DAMON.
&gt;&gt; YES, I WANTED TO LET COUNCIL
MEMBER NELSON KNOW THAT MRS.
STILL TO REACH OUT TO US AND
OTHER COMMISSIONS OR
COMMISSIONS FROM THE OFFICE
OF SUSTAINABILITY INNOVATION
AND ASK COULD THEY MAKE A
PRESENTATION TO THE COMMISSION
IN APRIL OR MAY?
&gt;&gt; AND I BROUGHT IT TO THE
CHAIR AND VICE CHAIR.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
I APPRECIATE THAT CLARIFICATION
AND I AND JUST TO REITERATE I
DON&apos;T HAVE MUCH OF A WINDOW ON
THIS BECAUSE MY OTHER
APPOINTMENTS ARE NOT
CONVENTIONAL LIKE THIS ONE.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT FOLKS.
BUT I&apos;M SORRY I KNOW THAT THERE
ARE OTHERS THAT HAVE SOME
COMMENTS.
BUT UNFORTUNATELY, FOLKS, WE&apos;RE
WE&apos;RE GETTING CLOSE ON TIME AS
IT IS ALMOST SIX O&apos;CLOCK HERE
AND SO IF THERE ARE ANY
ADDITIONAL I GUESS COMMENTS OR
ISSUES, I ENCOURAGE YOU GUYS TO
REACH OUT TO ME THROUGH EMAIL
OR THROUGH MY PHONE.
I&apos;M APPROACHABLE AND YOU GUYS
CAN ADDRESS ANY PARTICULAR
ISSUES OR COMMENTS THAT YOU
WOULD LIKE BUT THIS TIME I&apos;M
NOT GOING FAR OVER OUR USUAL
MEETING TIME SO I THINK IT&apos;S
BEST THAT WE DO ADJOURN THIS
EVENING.
&gt;&gt; BUT HOLD ON, MR. CHAIRMAN,
IS THERE ANOTHER YES TO RAISE
MY HAND I&apos;VE GOT ANOTHER
SUBJECT THAT I DON&apos;T THINK
WE&apos;VE ADDRESSED JUST VERY
QUICKLY.
WE WERE TRYING WE MAY HAVE TO
TAPE WE A TABLE THAT WE&apos;RE
GOING TO ADDRESS THE
INITIATIVE
AND THIS IS YOU KNOW, WE&apos;RE
GOING TO THE CREDIT MR. AND
WHATNOT AND HOW TO DEAL WITH
THAT.
AND IF WE DON&apos;T PROCESS MY
SUGGESTION WOULD BE TO LOOK AT
BY MY SECTION 10 THROUGH 12.
OK, LARRY, I&apos;M SORRY YOU BROKE
UP A LITTLE BIT THERE.
OH YEAH.
THAT HAPPENS.
WE WERE GOING TO TALK ABOUT THE
COMMISSIONERS WHAT TO DO ABOUT
EPSON ABSENT COMMISSIONERS THAT
HAD CHRONIC ABSENCES.
&gt;&gt; OH, RIGHT.
AND HOW WE WERE GOING TO DEAL
WITH THAT.
AND MY SUGGESTION WAS IF WE&apos;RE
NOT GOING TO DO IT TODAY I
DON&apos;T KNOW WAS IT MENTIONED ON
THE AGENDA IF IT WASN&apos;T, WE&apos;LL
DO IT NEXT TIME.
BUT I WOULD SUGGEST THAT WE GO
LOOK AT SECTIONS 10 TO 12 THE
BYLAWS GOT IT.
WELL, I CAN MAKE SURE, LARRY,
THAT THAT&apos;S ON THE AGENDA FOR
THE NEXT MEETING BECAUSE I
THINK IT IS AN IMPORTANT TOPIC
.
WE NEED TO BE ABLE TO MAKE SURE
THAT WE HAVE YOU KNOW, SOLID
ATTENDANCE AND OF COURSE THE
MOST IMPORTANT THING A QUORUM
IF WE WANT TO BE ABLE TO
CONTINUE TO MOVE FORWARD WITH
THINGS THAT WE REALLY FEEL
PASSIONATE ABOUT IF WE DON&apos;T
HAVE A QUORUM WE CAN&apos;T
NECESSARILY VOTE.
ERGO NOT THE NOT NOT THAT IT&apos;S
ALWAYS ABOUT THAT FOLKS.
BUT IT&apos;S IMPORTANT TO HAVE A
QUORUM SO THAT IF WE DO HAVE
ACTION ITEMS THAT WE WANT
COMPLETED AND VOTED ON AS A
FULL COMMISSION THAT THAT BE
THE CASE.
SO I AGREE ATTENDANCE IS
IMPORTANT AND THANK YOU, LARRY.
I&apos;LL MAKE SURE THAT WE GET THAT
PUT ON THE AGENDA SO THAT WE
CAN DISCUSS THAT NEXT MONTH.
THE FINAL THING THAT I WANTED
TO ADDRESS WAS JUST THE
DECEMBER MEETING.
AND DENISE, DO YOU MIND TALKING
A LITTLE BIT MORE IN DEPTH
ABOUT THAT?
&gt;&gt; I I JUST WANTED TO LET THE
COMMISSION KNOW THAT THEIR
MEETING IS ON THE TWENTY FIRST
OF DECEMBER AND WHAT THEY&apos;D
LIKE TO KEEP IT THAT DATE OR
WOULD THEY LIKE TO MOVE TO
ANOTHER WEEK MAYBE THE FOUR
DENHA CLOSE TO THE HOLIDAY
SEASON IF YOU&apos;RE SATISFIED WITH
THAT THEN WE&apos;LL LEAVE IT AS IF
I&apos;M OK WITH LEAVING IT AS IS
BECAUSE I&apos;LL I&apos;LL STILL BE
WORKING UP TO THE HOLIDAYS SO I
I DON&apos;T HAVE ANY CONFLICTS IN
TERMS OF VACATION OR OTHER
THINGS.
OK, ALL RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; I MEAN IF THAT CHANGES WE
GOT A LITTLE BIT OF TIME BUT I
WANTED TO MAKE SURE THAT YOU
KNOW, THAT WAS PUT FORTH WE HAD
AN OPPORTUNITY TO AT LEAST TALK
ABOUT THAT, YOU KNOW, AT THIS
TIME AGAIN I&apos;M DEFINITELY NOT
TRYING TO RUSH THINGS BUT I
KNOW THAT WE&apos;VE JUST TAKEN A
LOT OF TIME TODAY.
SO I JUST WANT TO THANK YOU ALL
FOR YOUR TIME.
I THINK WE CAN ADJOURN FOR
TODAY.
BUT AGAIN, IF THERE ARE ANY
OTHER QUESTIONS, COMMENTS,
CONCERNS, THINGS
THAT YOU WANT
TO ADDRESS, I ENCOURAGE YOU TO
REACH OUT TO YOU GUYS HAVE MY
INFORMATION, YOU HAVE MY EMAIL
BUT YOU ALSO HAVE MY CELL
PHONE.
SO DO NOT HESITATE TO REACH OUT
TO ME TO GIVE ME A CALL TO LET
ME KNOW HOW THINGS ARE GOING IF
YOU CAN&apos;T MAKE MEETINGS TO JUST
LET ME KNOW OR LET ANY OF US
KNOW AND YEAH LET&apos;S JUST KEEP
KEEP IN TOUCH WITH EACH OTHER.
I THANK YOU ALL FOR YOUR TIME
AND COMMISSIONER SOLOMON, YOU
HAVE A QUESTION WE NEED A
MOTION TO ADJOURN.
&gt;&gt; I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE
WE&apos;RE FOLLOWING THE PROCEDURE.
YES.
SO IS THERE A MOTION TO ADJOURN
THE MEETING TODAY?
OK, ELIZABETH, SHE MOTIONS IS
THERE A SECOND TO ADJOURN
ALFRED?
ALL RIGHT, THANK YOU, FOLKS.
THANK YOU.
WE ARE ADJOURNED FOR TODAY AND
I APPRECIATE EVERYONE&apos;S TIME
AND I APPRECIATE EVERYONE&apos;S
FEEDBACK.
I DO TAKE NOTES.
I DO UNDERSTAND A LOT OF THE
FEEDBACK SO I DO APPRECIATE IT.
THANK YOU ALL FOR YOUR TIME AND
PLEASE LIKE I SAID, REACH OUT,
KEEP IN TOUCH AND IF YOU HAVE
ANYTHING ELSE GOING FORWARD,
PLEASE LET ME KNOW.
BUT THANK YOU VERY MUCH AND I
WISH YOU ALL SAFETY AND
HAPPINESS.
&gt;&gt; GOOD NIGHT AND GOOD NIGHT